Now that we've learned about EC2 instances and the crucial role they play in AWS, let's talk about the different types of EC2 instances that are available. Thinking back to our coffee shop analogy, you'll remember that EC2 instances are like our employees and that they serve client requests. If we want to have a cafe that can serve a lot of customers, then we're probably going to need multiple employees, right? And they all can't just be cashiers. We also need someone to make the drinks, someone to handle the food, and maybe someone to do that cool latte art that our customers love so much. Like any business, there are a variety of tasks that need to be done, and they often require different skillsets. 

If we want our business to operate as efficiently as possible, it's important to make sure that an employee's skillset suits their role. In the same way that our coffee shop has different kinds of employees, AWS has different types of EC2 instances that you can spin up and deploy into your AWS environment. 

Each instance type is grouped under an instance family and are optimized for certain types of tasks. Instance types offer varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity, and give you the flexibility to choose the appropriate mix of resources for your applications. The different instance families in EC2 are general purpose, compute optimized, memory optimized, accelerated computing, and storage optimized. 

General purpose instances provide a good balance of compute, memory, and networking resources, and can be used for a variety of diverse workloads like web service or code repositories. 

Compute optimized instances are ideal for compute-intensive tasks like gaming servers, high performance computing or HPC, and even scientific modeling. 

Similarly, memory optimized instances are good for memory-intensive tasks. Accelerated computing are good for floating point number calculations, graphics processing, or data pattern matching, as they use hardware accelerators. 

And finally, storage optimized are good for, can you guess it? Workloads that require high performance for locally stored data. 

Now, if we map this back to our coffee shop, our cashier becomes a memory optimized EC2 instance, baristas become compute optimized instances, and our latte art employee is an accelerated computing instance type. And there you have it, EC2 instance types.


Amazon EC2 instance types
Amazon EC2 instance types(opens in a new tab) are optimized for different tasks. When selecting an instance type, consider the specific needs of your workloads and applications. This might include requirements for compute, memory, or storage capabilities.

1. General purpose instances provide a balance of compute, memory, and networking resources. Suppose that you have an application in which the resource needs for compute, memory, and networking are roughly equivalent. You might consider running it on a general purpose instance because the application does not require optimization in any single resource area.

2. Compute optimized instances are ideal for compute-bound applications that benefit from high-performance processors. Like general purpose instances, you can use compute optimized instances for workloads such as web, application, and gaming servers.

3. Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory. In computing, memory is a temporary storage area. It holds all the data and instructions that a central processing unit (CPU) needs to be able to complete actions. Before a computer program or application is able to run, it is loaded from storage into memory. This preloading process gives the CPU direct access to the computer program.

4. Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform some functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs. Examples of these functions include floating-point number calculations, graphics processing, and data pattern matching.

5. Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets on local storage. Examples of workloads suitable for storage optimized instances include distributed file systems, data warehousing applications, and high-frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems.