We talked about EC2 instance types, but you're all probably wondering how much is this gonna cost me? Well, don't fret. For EC2, we have multiple billing options available. 

The first one and the one that most people are familiar with is called On-Demand. What that means is that you only pay for the duration that your instance runs for. This can be per hour or per second, depending on the instance type and operating system you choose to run. Plus, no long-term commitments or upfront payments are needed. This type of pricing is usually for when you get started and want to spin up servers to test out workloads and play around. You don't need any prior contracts or communication with AWS to use On-Demand pricing. You can also use them to get a baseline for your average usage, which leads us to our next pricing option, Savings Plan. 

Savings Plan offers low prices on EC2 usage in exchange for a commitment to a consistent amount of usage measured in dollars per hour for a one or three-year term. This flexible pricing model can therefore provide savings of up to 72% on your AWS compute usage. This can lower prices on your EC2 usage, regardless of instance family, size, OS, tenancy, or AWS region. This also applies to AWS Fargate and AWS Lambda usage, which are serverless compute options that we will cover later in this course. 

Another option is Reserved Instances. These are suited for steady-state workloads or ones with predictable usage and offer you up to a 75% discount versus On-Demand pricing. You qualify for a discount once you commit to a one or three-year term and can pay for them with three payment options: all upfront, where you pay for them in full when you commit; partial upfront, where you pay for a portion when you commit; and no upfront, where you don't pay anything at the beginning. 

The next option is Spot Instances, and they allow you to request spare Amazon EC2 computing capacity for up to 90% off of the On-Demand price. The catch here is that AWS can reclaim the instance at any time they need it, giving you a two-minute warning to finish up work and save state. You can always resume later if needed. So when choosing Spot Instances, make sure your workloads can tolerate being interrupted. A good example of those are batch workloads. 

And finally, we have Dedicated Hosts, which are physical hosts dedicated for your use for EC2. These are usually for meeting certain compliance requirements and nobody else will share tenancy of that host.

Pricing: With Amazon EC2, you pay only for the compute time that you use. Amazon EC2 offers a variety of pricing options for different use cases. For example, if your use case can withstand interruptions, you can save with Spot Instances. You can also save by committing early and locking in a minimum level of use with Reserved Instances.

1. On-Demand Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be interrupted. No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use

2. Reserved Instances are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in your account. There are two available types of Reserved Instances:

A. Standard Reserved Instances: This option is a good fit if you know the EC2 instance type and size you need for your steady-state applications and in which AWS Region you plan to run them.

B. Convertible Reserved Instances: If you need to run your EC2 instances in different Availability Zones or different instance types, then Convertible Reserved Instances might be right for you. Note: You trade in a deeper discount when you require flexibility to run your EC2 instances.

3. EC2 Instance Savings Plans reduce your EC2 instance costs when you make an hourly spend commitment to an instance family and Region for a 1-year or 3-year term. This term commitment results in savings of up to 72 percent compared to On-Demand rates. Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plans rate (for example, $10 per hour). Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular On-Demand rates.

The EC2 Instance Savings Plans are a good option if you need flexibility in your Amazon EC2 usage over the duration of the commitment term. You have the benefit of saving costs on running any EC2 instance within an EC2 instance family in a chosen Region (for example, M5 usage in N. Virginia) regardless of Availability Zone, instance size, OS, or tenancy. The savings with EC2 Instance Savings Plans are similar to the savings provided by Standard Reserved Instances.

4. Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions. Spot Instances use unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost savings at up to 90% off of On-Demand prices.

5. Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully dedicated to your use. 