What are the 5 criteria of cloud computing?
On-demand self-service, network connectivity, resource pooling, elasticity, and that resource usage must be monitored and billed.


What is high availability? 
High availability is a way to design your systems to have the ability to keep your systems up and running and providing service as often as possible.



What is fault tolerance? 
Fault tolerance is the actual ability of a system to keep operating in the event of a failure.



What are the two ways to scale? 
Vertically and horizontally.



What type of scaling is adding more instances of the same size? 
Horizontal.


What type of scaling is adding a larger instance size? 
Vertical.


What are the 6 pillars of the AWS Well-Architected Framework? 
Operational excellence, security, reliability, performance efficiency, cost optimization, and sustainability.



What are the 7 migration strategies? 
Retire is for applications that you want to decommission or retire.
Retain is for applications that you want to keep in the source environment or applications that are not ready to be migrated.
Rehost, also known as lift and shift, is for applications to be migrated without making any changes to the application.
Relocate is for a large number of servers that are made up of one or more applications.
Repurchase, also known as drop-and-shop, is for applications with a different version or product and provides more value than the existing infrastructure.
Replatform, also known as lift, tinker, and shift, is for applications that need some level of optimization in order to operate efficiently or to take advantage of AWS capabilities.
Refactor or re-architect is for applications that you want to migrate to AWS and take full advantage of the cloud-native features to improve agility, performance, and scalability.



What are the four parts of total cost of ownership (TCO) in AWS for this exam? 
Operational expenses (OpEx) are your day-to-day operating costs such as utilities, printer toner, coffee, and snacks. 
Capital Expenses (CapEx) are the costs associated with creating the long-term benefits such as purchasing a building, servers, printers, storage, and backups. CapEx items are generally purchased once, and are expected to be used by your organization for years.
Labor costs are the costs assocaited with staffing an on-premises environment or data center such as the network operation center technicians, who are responsbile for installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and management of your servers and infrastructure.
Software licensing costs are the cost and the impact of migrating software licensing costs to AWS.

When you migrate from an on-premises environment and traditional servers to AWS, are you trading capital expenses for variable expenses? 
Yes.