The goal of fine-tuning with instructions is to further train your model to better understand human-like prompts and generate more human-like responses. This approach can improve a model's performance sustainability over the original pre-trained based version and lead to more natural-sounding language. Natural-sounding human language can be a challenge, and there have been even articles about some LLMs behaving badly.

Issues include models that use toxic language in their completions, replying in combative and aggressive voices, and providing detailed information about dangerous topics. These problems exist because large models are trained on vast amounts of text data from the internet where such language appears frequently. Because of this, an LLM could give misleading or incorrect answers. Suppose that you ask the LLM about the disproven health advice for diabetics, that eating a carb-focused diet is the key to good health. The model should refute the story. Instead, the model might give a confident and totally incorrect response. Definitely not the truthful and honest answer a person is seeking. This action is called a hallucination.

To get the correct answer, you should double check the answer with an authoritative source before counting on it. Also, the LLM shouldn't create harmful completions, such as being offensive, discriminatory, or illicit criminal behavior. Again, we'll talk about these important human values: helpfulness, honesty, and harmlessness under Domain 4. These values are a set of principles that guide developers in the responsible use of AI. We can add fine-tuning with human feedback to better align models with human preferences and to increase the helpfulness, honesty, and harmlessness of the completions. This further training can also decrease the toxicity and reduce the generation of incorrect information.

When selecting a model or an algorithm, consider interpretability. The higher the interpretability of a machine learning model, the easier it is to comprehend the model's predictions, but you have a tradeoff to consider. It's between what the model has predicted, which is the model performance, and why the model made such a prediction, which is the model interpretability. And these are methods for model interpretability that can be classified into intrinsic analysis and post hoc analysis. Intrinsic analysis can be applied to interpret models that have low complexity or simple relationships between the input variables and the predictions.

The simple relationship between the inputs, input variables, output results, and predictions in high model interpretability can lead to lower performance. The reason is that algorithms are unable to capture complex non-linear interactions. Post hoc analysis can be applied to interpret simple relationship models and more complex models, such as neural networks, which can capture non-linear interactions. These methods are often model agnostic and provide mechanisms to interpret a trained model based on the inputs and the output predictions. Post hoc analysis can be performed at a local level and zoom in on a single data point, or it can be performed at a global level and zoom out and view the overall behavior of the model.

Let's talk about how you can formalize the improvement in performance of your fine-tuned model over the pre-trained model that you started with. Developers of large language models use specific metrics. You can use these metrics to assess the performance of your models and compare it to other models out in the world. In traditional machine learning, you can assess how well a model is performing on training and validation datasets where the output is already known. You're able to calculate basic metrics, such as accuracy, which states the fraction of all predictions that are correct because the models are deterministic.

But with large language models, the output is non-deterministic and language-based evaluation is much more challenging. For example, consider these two sentences: I drink coffee and I do not drink coffee. As humans, we can see and understand the differences and similarities too, but when you train a model on millions of sentences, you need an automated and structured way to make measurements. ROUGE and BLEU are two widely used evaluation metrics for different tasks. ROUGE, or Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation, is primarily employed to assess the quality of automatically-generated summaries by comparing them to human-generated reference summaries. On the other hand, BLEU, or Bilingual Evaluation Understudy, is an algorithm designed to evaluate the quality of machine-translated texts by comparing it to human-generated translations. I will continue talking about ROUGE and BLEU under task statement 3.4. For now, let's pause this lesson and continue with task statement 2.2. 