So far in this course, we have learned that generative AI and LLMs are a general-purpose technology. Therefore, similar to other general-purpose technologies, such as deep learning, it has many uses. It is useful not just for a single application, but for a lot of different applications that span many corners of the economy. Let's talk about the advantages of generative AI, such as adaptability, responsiveness, and simplicity. We talked about how we use artificial intelligence almost daily in Domain 1. Every time you do a web search, that's AI. Every time you use your credit card, there is probably an AI checking whether it's really you using your credit cards. Or every time you go to amazon.com, AI recommends products to you.

Many AI systems have been complex and expensive to build. However, generative AI is making many AI applications much more straightforward to build. Generative AI might help your business build valuable AI applications at lower costs, and faster too. I have added flashcards to review best practices on using generative AI. Generative AI is a fascinating technology, but it can't do everything. It's important to understand generative AI's limitations to ensure that you're building models that are responsible, ethical, and fair. We must ensure that we use AI responsibly and benefit people. We will dive deeper into responsible AI under Domain 4.

If you're trying to figure out what prompting an LLM can do, there is one question that I find helpful. Could I as a 10-year-old child follow the instructions in the prompt and complete the task? For example, could I at the age of 10 follow the instructions to read an email and determine whether the email is a complaint? Well, I think most people can do this, and an LLM can do that too. But could you or a child write an article about a new AWS service without any information about that service? Probably not. We could write a generic document, but it would not include specifics about the new AWS service. However, if you read a blog post or a press release on the topic, then you could write a document with much more detail, and a large language model could do that too.

Every time you prompt your LLM, the LLM does not actually remember earlier conversations. It is similar to asking a different child for every single task. Therefore, you don't get to train them over time on specifics of your business or the style you want them to write, but you could with fine-tuning. I'm going to pause this lesson here, and in the next lesson, we will continue with task statement 2.2. 