This task statement is split into four lessons. This task statement is focused on understanding the design consideration for applications that use foundation models. For this task statement, our task is to identify selection criteria, to choose pre-trained models such as cost, modality, latency, multilingual, model size, model complexity, customization, input, and output length.

In Domain 2, we talked about how pre-trained models have advantages in machine learning and artificial intelligence, but they also come with considerations. Pre-trained models are large and require a lot of compute resources for training and inference. These requirements can be a challenge for individuals and organizations with limited computing capabilities. We also talked about considerations to ensure alignment with your requirements before selecting a pre-trained model.

For this task statement, we will focus on the requirements for cost, latency constraints, and required modalities. Let's dive deeper into cost considerations. The duration and cost of training a model are important considerations because it can be expensive for hardware storage and more.

Here is a question, do you choose a model that's 98% accurate but costs hundreds of thousands of dollars to train, or do you choose a less accurate model that is 97% accurate, but only costs a few thousand dollars? The answer will depend on your requirements. You need to find the balance between training time, cost, and model performance. Your goal is to architect a scalable solution that is efficient and does not reduce the performance of the model. The cost to build and maintain a model is an important consideration in the success of a project. The more complex a model is, the greater its impact will be throughout the model's lifecycle.

Let's dive deeper into considerations for latency constraints, inference speed, and real-time requirements. If the AI application needs to process data and provide results in real time, then that fact is another consideration for the model selection. For example, some complex models might have longer inference times and will not be able to meet your latency requirements. Inference speed or the duration it takes a model to process data and produce a prediction is another consideration. Here is another question. Suppose that you have a self-driving vehicle system that will require instant decisions and models with slow inference times will not meet this requirement. What model do you choose? You might use a k-nearest neighbors, or KNN, model that performs most of its computational work during the inference stage. However, this model might be slower to generate predictions. This self-driving vehicle system is an extremely high dimensional problem, and a KNN model would not be the best choice. So understanding the requirements for your use case in terms of inference speed is important when deciding on AI model.

Also, let's dive deeper into modalities. There are several considerations that you should keep in mind here. In most AI systems, each modality has a specific embedding, but ensemble methods combine several models to achieve better performance than a single model. And another consideration might be the need to choose multilingual models trained on relevant languages. What are other considerations of choosing a pre-trained model? Architecture and complexity come to mind. We talked about how different architectures have different strengths and weaknesses and might be more suitable for different types of tasks. For example, you might choose convolutional neural networks, CNNs, for image recognition, and you might choose recurrent neural networks, RNNs, for natural language processing. The complexity of the model can be measured by the number of parameters, layers, and operations. All these factors will affect its speed, memory, and accuracy, and remember that more complex models have higher accuracy, but also require more computational resources and data.

A subset of architecture and complexity is the performance and metrics of the pre-trained model on the original dataset and the new dataset. You can use standard metrics to evaluate and compare different models. Such metrics might include accuracy, precision, recall, F1 score, root mean squared error or RMSE, mean average precision or MAP, and mean absolute error, MAE. However, you should also consider the tradeoffs between these metrics and choose the ones that are most relevant for your task. For example, suppose that you are doing object detection. You might care more about MAP than accuracy because it measures how well the model can locate and classify multiple objects in an image. Accuracy is not recommended with datasets that are not evenly distributed or imbalanced. It's important when you are choosing an appropriate metric or set of metrics to assess your model's performance before selecting a model. I'm going to pause this lesson here, and in the next lesson we will continue with task statement 3.1. 