RAG combines two components, a retriever component, which searches through a knowledge base and a generator component, which produces outputs based on the retrieved information. This combination helps the model access up-to-date and domain-specific knowledge beyond their training data. Now, let's think back on vector databases. What is an example of how you would use a vector database in the real world? When I want to query the model, the prompt is passed into the query encoder, which encodes or embeds the data into the same format as the external data. Then the embedding can be passed to the vector database to search and return similar embeddings that have been through the model. Those embeddings are then attached to my new query and can also be mapped back to their original location. If the vector database finds similar data, then the retriever retrieves that data, the LLM combines or augments the new data or text with the original prompt, then the prompt is sent to the LLM to return a completion. We have mentioned that generative LLMs can be prone to hallucinations, which is a situation where the model generates a believable but factually incorrect response. RAG solves this problem by complimenting generative LLMs with an external knowledge base that is typically built using a vector database, hydrated with vector-coded knowledge articles.

Amazon Bedrock offers RAG models that integrate with custom knowledge bases. RAG finds applications in various domains, such as question-answering, dialect systems, and content generation using external knowledge to provide accurate and contextually relevant responses. Let's also talk about AWS services that help store embeddings within vector databases. Examples include Amazon OpenSearch Service, Amazon Aurora, Redis, Amazon Neptune, Amazon DocumentDB with MongoDB compatibility, and Amazon RDS with PostgreSQL.

The OpenSearch search engine delivers low-latency search and aggregations, OpenSearch dashboards, visualization, and dashboarding tools. It also has plugins that provide advanced capabilities such as alerting, fine-grained access control, observability, security monitoring and vector storage and processing. With OpenSearch Service's vector database capabilities, you can implement semantic search, retrieval of augmented generation, RAG with LLMs, recommendation engines, and search media too. With semantic search, you can improve the retrieved results by using language-based embeddings on search documents. I added a link to a workshop example to improve search relevance with ML in Amazon OpenSearch Service. It explores the difference between keyword and semantic search based on a model called Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, BERT. It's hosted by Amazon SageMaker to generate vectors and store them in OpenSearch. The vector engine from Amazon OpenSearch Serverless provides vector storage and search capabilities. In this way, it helps build machine learning, ML, augmented search experiences, and generative artificial intelligence, AI, applications without having to manage the vector database infrastructure. With a fully managed RAG offered by knowledge bases for Amazon Bedrock, you can securely connect foundation models, FMs, to your company data. It is stored as embeddings in the vector engine for more relevant, context-specific, and accurate responses without continuously re-training the FM.

Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL also supports the pgvector extension to store embeddings and perform efficient searches. We added a link for more options that are available for more advanced vectors. In Domain 2 and the lesson for task statement 2.1, I said one additional thing to keep in mind is that larger models of any architecture are typically more capable of carrying out their tasks well. Researchers have found that the larger a model, the more likely it is to work because you need it without additional in-context learning or further training. For this task statement, ensure that you understand the role of agents in multi-step tasks.

Foundation models can understand and respond to queries based on their pre-trained knowledge. However, they are unable to complete any real world tasks such as booking a flight or processing a purchase order. Why? Well, these tasks require organization-specific data and workflows that typically need custom programming. Agents for Amazon Bedrock is a fully managed AI capability from AWS to help you build applications foundation models. Agents can automatically break down tasks and generate the required orchestration logic or write custom code, and agents can securely connect to your databases through APIs, they can ingest and structure the data for machine consumption and augment it with contextual details to produce more accurate responses and fulfill requests. Agents are an additional piece of software that orchestrates the prompt completion workflows and interactions between the user requests, foundation model, and external data sources or applications. Also, agents automatically call APIs to take actions and invoke knowledge bases to supplement information for these actions. For example, you can create an agent that helps customers process reservations for your next scuba diving vacation. 