Inference parameters help control the behavior and output characteristics of the foundation models. So let's pause and define inference. The inference is where you process new data through the model to make predictions. It is the process of generating an output from an input that you provided to model. Amazon Bedrock gives you the ability to run inference in the foundation model you choose.

Here is a question, when you run inference, what inputs do you provide? A prompt, which is an input, is provided to the model for it to generate a response. And inference parameters are a set of values that can be adjusted to limit or influence the model response. You can run inference with base models, custom models, or provision models to test foundation model responses with different prompts and inference parameters. After you have sufficiently explored these methods, you can set up your application to run model inference by calling these APIs. Amazon Bedrock foundation models support the inference parameters of temperature, Top K, Top P to control randomness and diversity in the response. Amazon Bedrock also supports parameters such as response length, penalties, and stop sequences to limit the length of the response. It is important to consider these different parameter settings and experiment to find the optimal balance between diversity, coherence, and resource efficiency. Then continuously monitor and adjust these parameters in production to maintain optimal performance and align with evolving requirements. I have added flashcards for the inference parameters and the link under additional resources.

We will talk more about prompt engineering in the next lesson, but for this task statement, let's pause for fundamentals and talk about prompt engineering. AWS defines prompts as a specific set of inputs provided by you the user. These inputs guide LLMS to generate an appropriate response or output for a given task or instruction. You can also add contextual data from your internal databases to enrich the prompt. You can integrate additional domain-specific data from these data stores or vector data stores that add to your prompts semantically relevant inputs. This method is called retrieval augmented generation, RAG, and we will cover this topic in a few minutes. Remember, the best AI model for you depends on your needs, resources, and constraints. It's all about finding the right balance to meet your project's objectives and requirements. For the exam, ensure that you understand the cost tradeoffs of various approaches to foundation model customization, such as pre-training, fine-tuning, in-context learning, and RAG.

Let's pause here and ask a question. What is the difference between vector databases and a machine learning model? A vector database is a collection of data that is stored as mathematical representations. And remember, we related to this as the Excel spreadsheet. Vector databases store structured and unstructured data, such as text or images with the vector embeddings. Vector embeddings are a way to convert words and sentences and other data into numbers. Embeddings are the numerical representation of that data that represents the meaning and relationships. A vector database is filled with dense vectors by processing input data, generally text data, and using an ML model, generally an embedding model. So it's important to understand that a machine learning model is a prerequisite to create a vector database and the indexing technology itself. Vector databases are the factual reference of foundation model based applications, helping the model retrieve trustworthy data. Foundation models use vector databases as an external data source to improve their capabilities by enhancing search recommendations and text generation use cases. Vector databases add additional capabilities for efficient and fast lookup, and to provide data management, fault tolerance, authentication, and access control and query engine.

For example, knowledge bases for Amazon Bedrock give you the ability of collecting data sources into a repository of information. This way, you build an application that takes advantage of retrieval augmented generation, RAG. RAG enhances language models to retrieve and use external knowledge during the generation process. It is a technique in which the retrieval of information from data sources augments the generation of model responses. I'm going to pause this lesson here, and in the next lesson, we will continue with task statement 3.1 and talk more about RAG.