So you've created a brand spanking new AWS account and want to get started, but you're worried about exhausting your credit limit. Well, don't worry. If you're looking to try out some AWS services, you might be able to try them out under our Free Tier. 

Depending on the product you're looking at, the Free Tier offers three different ways to try out a service. Number one, always free. That means a service is available to all AWS customers and the Free Tier does not expire. Number two, 12 months free. That means you have 12 months to try out a service following your initial signup date to AWS, so the date you created your AWS account. And number three, trials. Some services offer a short-term free trial, and then they expire after that period ends. 

Simple enough, right? Let's illustrate with a few examples. Let's take AWS Lambda, our serverless compute option. As of March 2020, it allows for one million free invocations per month. That means if you stay under one million invocations, it's always free. This Free Tier never expires. Another example is S3, our object store service. It's free for 12 months for up to five gigs of storage. Thereafter, you'll incur a cost. Great for trying out a static website on S3, I might say. And the last example is Lightsail where you can deploy ready-made application stacks. We offer a one month trial of up to 750 hours of usage. That's a pretty decent amount to deploy and test a WordPress blog. I mean, who knows, maybe you wanna show people your smoothie recipes. 

But before I digress, some other services that qualify under the free tier are SageMaker, Comprehend Medical, DynamoDB, SNS, Cognito, and so much more. If you want to see the full list of 60 or so services, please check out our Resources section. Happy exploring of the Free Tier.

The AWS Free Tier enables you to begin using certain services without having to worry about incurring costs for the specified period. 

Always Free
These offers do not expire and are available to all AWS customers.
For example, AWS Lambda allows 1 million free requests and up to 3.2 million seconds of compute time per month. Amazon DynamoDB allows 25 GB of free storage per month.

12 Months Free
These offers are free for 12 months following your initial sign-up date to AWS.
Examples include specific amounts of Amazon S3 Standard Storage, thresholds for monthly hours of Amazon EC2 compute time, and amounts of Amazon CloudFront data transfer out.

Short-term free trial offers start from the date you activate a particular service. The length of each trial might vary by number of days or the amount of usage in the service.