When you own multiple coffee shops around the city, like we talked about before, each one will have its own expenditures and its own profits. At the end of the day for these coffee shops, they're all owned by the same entity. Because of that, the money is flowing to and from one main account, if there was a coffee machine repair person on call to help fix the coffee machines when they break, that repair person will bill the organization, not the individual coffee shop. 

Okay, let's take that idea and apply it to AWS. A singular company will more than likely have multiple AWS accounts, and as you already learned, you can manage multiple accounts in AWS by using AWS Organizations. One of the lovely features of AWS Organizations is called consolidated billing. At the end of every month, instead of having to pay an AWS bill for every single account, you can roll those bills up into one bill owned by the owner of the organization. This makes it easier to keep track of your bills. You don't get 100 bills, if you have 100 AWS accounts, just like our coffee shop example, if my repair person visited 11 of my coffee shops, repairing coffee makers, they would just make one bill for the billing cycle. So it's easier for the company to manage. 

Same idea with the consolidated billing feature for AWS Organizations. You can still view your AWS bill in an itemized fashion. So you know which accounts spent what, but it all goes into one central location for ease of viewing. There are other benefits of using this feature too. One of them is that the usage for AWS resources is rolled up to the organization level. AWS does offer bulk pricing. Each individual account may only have a small amount of usage, but you can get the bulk discount pricing because of the aggregate across all accounts in the organization. 

In addition, if you have a savings plan in place, or if you are using reserved instances for EC2, it can be shared across AWS accounts in the organization. The best part about this is that the feature is free and easy to use. So it simplifies the billing process, lets you share savings across accounts and doesn't cost you any extra money. Nice.

In an earlier module, you learned about AWS Organizations, a service that enables you to manage multiple AWS accounts from a central location. AWS Organizations also provides the option for consolidated billing. 

The consolidated billing feature of AWS Organizations enables you to receive a single bill for all AWS accounts in your organization. By consolidating, you can easily track the combined costs of all the linked accounts in your organization. The default maximum number of accounts allowed for an organization is 4, but you can contact AWS Support to increase your quota, if needed.

On your monthly bill, you can review itemized charges incurred by each account. This enables you to have greater transparency into your organization’s accounts while still maintaining the convenience of receiving a single monthly bill.

Another benefit of consolidated billing is the ability to share bulk discount pricing, Savings Plans, and Reserved Instances across the accounts in your organization. For instance, one account might not have enough monthly usage to qualify for discount pricing. However, when multiple accounts are combined, their aggregated usage may result in a benefit that applies across all accounts in the organization.