As we have already discussed, AWS has a variable cost model, and you only pay for what you use. You don't have one fixed billed amount at the end of every month. Instead, it fluctuates with the resources you use and how you use them. Because of this cost model, it's really important that you can drill down into your bill and see just how you are spending money. 

AWS has a service called the AWS Cost Explorer, and it's a console-based service that allows you to visually see and analyze how you are spending money with AWS. It will show you which services you are spending the most money on, and it gives you 12 months of historical data, so you can track your spending over time. That way, if you see a bump in spending on, say, EC2 from October to December, you can then use that data to go on and figure out why exactly that happened. 

Let's take a look at AWS Cost Explorer in my own AWS account. You can see I am logged in to the console, and I'm going to type into the search Cost Explorer. From here, I am brought to the Cost Management dashboard, and I will click on Cost Explorer. You can see this is showing me the last six months of cost associated with my account, and it's currently grouped by service. I can change the timeframe it's showing me to eight months and change the data to be grouped by different attributes, and I'll go ahead and select Region. I can group by other attributes as well. 

One important grouping to note is to group by tag. Many resources in AWS are taggable. Tags are essentially user-defined key-value pairs. So you can tag an EC2 instance with a specific project name or a database with the same project name, and then you can come into the AWS Cost Explorer, filter by tag, and see all of the expenses associated with that tag. Cost Explorer also allows you to create custom reports. 

So now what I'm going to do is create a report on the daily cost for the month of January of this year. I'm going to group by service. You can see that the cost of the services is generally the same every day, except that I used more EC2 on some days than others. I can then save this report and come back to it when it is needed. 

AWS Cost Explorer
AWS Cost Explorer is a tool that lets you visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time.
AWS Cost Explorer includes a default report of the costs and usage for your top five cost-accruing AWS services. You can apply custom filters and groups to analyze your data. For example, you can view resource usage at the hourly level.

