Another huge way that AWS supports your enterprise is through the AWS Marketplace. The AWS Marketplace is a curated digital catalog that streamlines your steps to find, deploy and manage third party software running in your AWS architecture, all while providing a range of payment options, and this allows you to accelerate innovation while rapidly and securely deploying a wide range of solutions, while also reducing your total cost of ownership. 

To help us understand this more, I wanna talk about what the AWS Marketplace brings to the table, and how it can help you improve your speed and agility with AWS. The first key way that the AWS Marketplace helps customers, is that instead of needing to build, install and maintain the foundational infrastructure needed to run these third party applications in the marketplace, customers have options like one-click deployment that allows them to quickly procure and use products from thousands of software sellers right when you need them. 

Now, as you may know, some third party vendors historically have annual contracts for on-premises data centers. You might be wondering, is it the same with an AWS? Well, every vendor can choose what options are available, but almost every vendor in the marketplace will allow you to use any annual licenses you already own and credit them for AWS deployment. But more importantly, as you move forward, most vendors in the marketplace also offer on-demand pay-as-you-go options. These flexible pricing plans give you more options to pay for the software, the way you actually use it without wasted unused licenses weighing down your balance sheets. 

Many vendors even offer free trials or Quick Start plans to help you experiment and learn about their offerings. Because they know just like AWS itself, the best way to see if something works for you is to just run it. Even for large enterprises that are used to negotiating custom rates and discount vendors, well the AWS Marketplace can help. The marketplace offers a number of enterprise-focused features, such as custom terms and pricing, where you can manage custom licensing agreements. A private marketplace, where you can create a custom catalog of pre-approved software solutions that meet your specific legal or security standards. Integration into your procurement systems, and a range of cost management tools just to name a few benefits.

AWS Marketplace

AWS Marketplace is a digital catalog that includes thousands of software listings from independent software vendors. You can use AWS Marketplace to find, test, and buy software that runs on AWS. 

For each listing in AWS Marketplace, you can access detailed information on pricing options, available support, and reviews from other AWS customers.

You can also explore software solutions by industry and use case. For example, suppose your company is in the healthcare industry. In AWS Marketplace, you can review use cases that software helps you to address, such as implementing solutions to protect patient records or using machine learning models to analyze a patient’s medical history and predict possible health risks.