1. What are benefits in accessing a service such as Amazon S3 from the console or running the commands in the AWS CLI? 
Using aws s3 commands in the AWS CLI helps to manage S3 objects.

2. What do you use to connect public Amazon EC2 instances in a public subnet to the public internet? 
Internet gateway.

3. If you needed to use your existing server-bound software licenses, would you choose a dedicated host or shared host? 
A dedicated host.

4. Are Amazon EC2 instances an Availability Zone resilient service or a Regional resilient service? 
Amazon EC2 instances are an Availability Zone resilient service. 

5. What is the local storage of an Amazon EC2 instance? 
Instance Store.

6. What type of storage would you choose if you needed persistent storage for your Amazon EC2 instance? 
Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS).

7. Where would you check to find the Amazon EC2 instance ID, instance profile permissions, and kernel information? 
You can get the instance ID, public keys, public IP address, and other information from the instance metadata using http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/.

8. Which AWS Snow Family service would you choose to transfer hundreds of petabytes of data and exabyte scale data sets into AWS? 
AWS Snowmobile.

9. Is an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) a globally resilient service or a Regional resilient service? 
Amazon VPC is a regional resilient service.

10. Are network access control lists (network ACLs) stateful or stateless? Network ACLs are stateless.

11. Are security groups stateful or stateless? 
Security groups are stateful.

12. Can you use a NAT gateway in a private subnet? 
No, NAT gateways sit in a public subnet to allow private resources access to the internet or the AWS public zones.

13. What type of storage does Amazon S3 offer? Block, file, or object? 
Object storage.

14. What type of storage does Amazon EBS offer? Block, file, or object? 
Block storage.

15. What type of storage does Amazon EFS offer? Block, file, or object? 
File storage.

16. What type of level service is Amazon Rekogintion? 
Amazon Rekognition is an artificial intelligence (AI) service level.

17. What type of level service is Amazon Sagemaker? 
Amazon Sagemaker is a machine learning service level.

18. What AWS analytic service can help you identify personable identifiable information (PII)? 
Amazon Macie.

19. What AWS analytic service is a query service? 
Amazon Athena.

20. Which AWS service would you use for inter-process and services messaging? 
Amazon SQS.

