Before we get deeper into the pieces and parts of AWS, let's zoom out and get a good working definition of cloud. Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Let's break this down. On-demand delivery indicates that AWS has the resources you need, when you need them. You don't need to tell us in advance that you're going to need them. Suddenly you find yourself needing 300 virtual servers. Well, just a few clicks and launch them. Or you need 2000 terabytes of storage. You don't have to tell us in advance, just start using the storage you need, when you need it. Don't need them anymore, just as quickly, you can return them and stop paying immediately. That kind of flexibility is just not possible when you're managing your own data centers.

The idea of IT resources is actually a big part of the AWS philosophy. We often get asked why AWS has so many products and the answer is really simple: Because businesses need them. If there are IT elements that are common across a number of businesses, then this is not a differentiator.

Take a MySQL database as an example. If your business runs a MySQL database, does your ability to install the MySQL engine make you a better company than your competitors? Well, probably not that. Do you keep backups in a way that makes you superior to other players in your vertical? Again, doubtful. The data inside your database, now that's critically different. The way you build your tables and manage the structures, absolutely separates you from the competition. But the engine is just the engine. 

At AWS, we call that the undifferentiated heavy lifting of IT. Tasks that are common, often repetitive and ultimately time-consuming; these are the tasks AWS wants to help you with. So you can focus on what makes you unique. Over the internet, seems simple enough, but it implies that you can access those resources using a secure webpage console or programmatically. 

No additional contracts or sales calls are needed. With pay-as-you-go pricing, we re-emphasize what we pointed out here in the coffee shop. You don't staff a shop with employees 24 hours a day at the same levels you do during peak hours. In fact, some hours, you might not even staff them at all. So why pay for developer environments, for example, on weekends, if your developers aren't working on the weekends?

When selecting a cloud strategy, a company must consider factors such as required cloud application components, preferred resource management tools, and any legacy IT infrastructure requirements.

The three cloud computing deployment models are cloud-based, on-premises, and hybrid. 

In a cloud-based deployment model, you can migrate existing applications to the cloud, or you can design and build new applications in the cloud. You can build those applications on low-level infrastructure that requires your IT staff to manage them. Alternatively, you can build them using higher-level services that reduce the management, architecting, and scaling requirements of the core infrastructure.

On-premises deployment is also known as a private cloud deployment. In this model, resources are deployed on premises by using virtualization and resource management tools.

In a hybrid deployment, cloud-based resources are connected to on-premises infrastructure. You might want to use this approach in a number of situations. For example, you have legacy applications that are better maintained on premises, or government regulations require your business to keep certain records on premises.

Benefits of cloud computing
1. Trade upfront cost for variable expense: Upfront expense refers to data centers, physical servers, and other resources that you would need to invest in before using them. Variable expense means you only pay for computing resources you consume instead of investing heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you’re going to use them.

2. Stop spending $ to run and maintain data centers: 

3. Stop guessing capacity: 
With cloud computing, you don’t have to predict how much infrastructure capacity you will need before deploying an application. For example, you can launch Amazon EC2 instances when needed, and pay only for the compute time you use. Instead of paying for unused resources or having to deal with limited capacity, you can access only the capacity that you need. You can also scale in or scale out in response to demand.

4. Massive economies of scale: By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower variable cost than you can get on your own. Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers can aggregate in the cloud, providers, such as AWS, can achieve higher economies of scale. The economy of scale translates into lower pay-as-you-go prices. 

5. Increase Speed + Agility: 
The flexibility of cloud computing makes it easier for you to develop and deploy applications.

6. Go Global in Minutes: 
The global footprint of the AWS Cloud enables you to deploy applications to customers around the world quickly, while providing them with low latency. This means that even if you are located in a different part of the world than your customers, customers are able to access your applications with minimal delays. 

Cloud Essentials:
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of compute power, database, storage, applications, and other IT resources through a cloud services platform through the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Traditionally, a developer looking to build an application had to procure, set up, and maintain physical infrastructure and the application. This is where cloud computing comes in.

A cloud services platform provides rapid access to flexible and low-cost IT resources that you can use to build and maintain software and databases, and create applications to delight customers. You don’t need to make large upfront investments in hardware and spend a lot of time on the heavy lifting of managing that hardware. You can access as many resources as you need, almost instantly, and only pay for what you use. On-demand, pay-as-you-go access to services is fundamental to the cloud computing model.

AWS CLoud:
The AWS Cloud encompasses a broad set of global cloud-based products that includes compute, storage, databases, analytics, networking, mobile, developer tools, management tools, IoT, security, and enterprise applications: on-demand, available in seconds, with pay-as-you-go pricing. With over 200 fully featured services available from data centers globally, the AWS Cloud has what you need to develop, deploy, and operate your applications, all while lowering costs, becoming more agile, and innovating faster.

On-Prem: In an on-premises solution, an additional environment requires you to buy and install hardware, connect the necessary cabling, provision power, install operating systems, and more. These tasks can be time consuming and expensive. Meanwhile, the team needs to delay the release of the new features while they wait for the QA environment. In contrast, if you run your application in the cloud, you can replicate an entire production environment, as often as needed, in a matter of minutes or even seconds. Instead of physically installing hardware and connecting cabling, the solution is managed over the internet.

IaaS/PaaS/SaaS:
With the growing popularity of cloud computing, several different service models have emerged to help meet specific needs of different users. Each type of cloud service provides you with different levels of abstraction, control, flexibility, and management. Understanding the differences between Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS) can help you decide what service type is right for your needs as a developer.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) contains the basic building blocks for cloud IT, and typically provides access to networking features, computers (virtual or on dedicated hardware), and data storage space. IaaS provides you with the highest level of flexibility and management control over your IT resources and is most like existing IT resources that many developers are familiar with today.

Platform as a Service (PaaS) removes the need for you to manage the underlying infrastructure (usually hardware and operating systems) and allows you to focus on the deployment and management of your applications. This helps you be more efficient because you don’t need to worry about resource procurement, capacity planning, software maintenance, patching, or any of the other undifferentiated heavy lifting involved in running your application.

Software as a Service (SaaS) provides you with a completed product that is run and managed by the service provider. In most cases, people referring to SaaS are referring to end-user applications. With a SaaS offering you do not have to think about how the service is maintained or how the underlying infrastructure is managed; you only need to think about how you will use that piece of software. A common example of a SaaS application is web-based email which you can use to send and receive email without having to manage feature additions to the email product or maintain the servers and operating systems that the email program is running on.

Global Infrastructure:
AWS Cloud infrastructure is built around AWS Regions and Availability Zones. A Region is a physical location in the world where we have multiple Availability Zones. Availability Zones consist of one or more discrete data centers, each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity, housed in separate facilities. These Availability Zones offer you the ability to operate production applications and databases that are more highly available, fault tolerant, and scalable than would be possible from a single data center.