In the last lesson, we talked about a first set of questions related to how your LLM will function in deployment. The second set of questions to consider, focus on how to integrate your model into applications. What additional resources might your model need? Do you intend for your model to interact with external data or other applications? And, if so, how will you connect to those resources? We have talked about retrieval augmented generation, RAG, a few times. Remember, it is a framework for LLM systems to use as external data sources. RAG helps with the challenge of internal knowledge of models being outdated. If your model is outdated, then it'll not know newer information. Also, models can have difficulty with complex math. The model might return a number that is close to the correct answer, but it's not correct. RAG also helps by providing a context, which helps to avoid hallucinations and improve factuality by grounding responses. However, you need more configurations to connect your LLM to external components and integrate deployment within your application. You can use an orchestration library to configure and manage the passing of user input to the large language model and the return of completions.

RAG helps overcome the outdated knowledge issue if your model uses older information. Re-training the model on new data adds additional costs and it will require repeated re-training to keep the model updated with the new knowledge. But RAG helps your model access additional external data at inference times. And the additional external data can help improve the relevance and accuracy of completions. Let's talk about a high-level overview of a stack that you can reference for building generative AI applications. You can use it to determine whether a foundation model effectively meets business objectives such as productivity, user engagement, task engineering. Here are a few questions. How will your model be consumed? What will be the design of the intended application or API interface that your model will be consumed through? We know that we can use foundation models and LLMs to meet various business objectives and enhance user experiences. And by using the evaluation techniques that we've discussed, you can determine whether your objectives are being met.

First, you must define your business goals with a specific problem that you're solving. You must determine the metrics for success and your infrastructure to support the model and application. And remember to measure, monitor, and review your metrics to evaluate the performance. Integrating generative AI models also requires the ability to interact with existing systems, software applications, or services in real time by using APIs and interfaces. Here are some key components to build end-to-end solutions for your application. The infrastructure layer provides the compute, storage, and network to serve and host your LLMs and to host your application components. For this layer, consider security recommendations. You must ensure that your data is being handled securely across the AI lifecycle for data preparation, training, and inferencing.

Next, you choose the large language models to use with your application and the appropriate infrastructure for your inference needs. Remember to include any additional storage and consider whether you need real-time or a near real-time interaction with a model. Here is a quick question. Why would you need additional storage? You might need to implement the collecting and storing of user completions or feedback to use for additional fine-tuning evaluation or alignment to your objectives. And remember to add security to isolate your data. For the next layer, you might also need additional tools and frameworks for large language models, or you might need to use model hubs to centrally manage and share models for applications. For the final layer, you'll need to have user interface that will be used to consume the application, such as website or a rest API. To ensure secure connections, security is a focus of this layer.

Additionally, you might require various stack components for interacting with your application. Consider requirements such as real-time or near real-time interaction with a model, along with retrieving data from external sources, such as RAG. Also, depending on your objectives, you might need to add storage to collect and store the outputs. Or you could store feedback from users that might be useful for additional fine-tuning, alignment, and evaluation as your application matures. The next layer might require additional tools and frameworks for LLMs, such as model hubs to centrally manage and share models for use in applications. In the final layer, you typically have a user interface that the application will be consumed through, such as a website or a rest API. This layer is where you also include the security components required for interacting with your application. Your users, whether they are human end users or other systems that can access your application through its APIs, will interact with this entire stack.