This task statement is split into two lessons. For this task statement, let's talk about the things that you need to consider to integrate your model into applications. Several important questions should be asked at this stage. The first set of questions is related to how your model will function in deployment. How fast do you need your model to generate completions? What compute budget do you have available? Are you willing to trade off model performance for improved inference speed or lower storage? You might have inference challenges for LLMs when you deploy, on premises, to the cloud or to edge devices. These challenges can include compute storage and low-latency requirements for the users that are consuming your application. One optimization technique is to improve application performance by reducing the size of the LLMs. This action can reduce the inference latency because the smaller size model loads more quickly. However, remember that reducing the size of the model might decrease its performance.

Other optimization techniques include making a more concise prompt, reducing the size of the retrieved snippets and their number, and reducing generation through inference parameters and prompt. Some techniques work better than others for generative models, but you might have tradeoffs between accuracy and performance. We have mentioned many different metrics to evaluate the performance of your generative AI application. We also talked about how evaluation metrics, such as accuracy or root mean square error, RMSE, are more straightforward to calculate. This is because the predictions are deterministic and can be compared against the labels. The output of generative AI models is non-deterministic and makes the evaluation more difficult to determine. Evaluation metrics for generative AI models are more task-specific. For example, Recall Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation, or ROUGE, is a set of metrics and a software package. It is used to evaluate automatic summarization tasks and machine translation software in natural language processing. It evaluates how well the input compares to the generated output. Bilingual Evaluation Understudy, or BLEU, is an algorithm that is used for translation tasks. It evaluates the quality of text which has been machine translated from one natural language to another.

To evaluate and compare LLMs without a task-specific focus, you can use existing benchmarks and datasets that LLM researchers have established specifically for this purpose. Examples include: General Language Understanding Evaluation, GLUE, Holistic Evaluation of Language Models, HELM, Massive Multitask Language Understanding, MMLU, and Beyond the Imitation Game Benchmark, BIG-bench. GLUE was created to help the development of models that can generalize across multiple tasks. It is a collection of natural language tasks, such as sentiment analysis and question answering. You can use these tasks to evaluate and compare model performance across a set of language tasks. Then, you can use the benchmark to measure and compare the model performance. SuperGlue was introduced in 2019 and adds additional tasks, such as multi-sentence reasoning and reading comprehension. Both the GLUE and SuperGlue benchmarks have leadership boards that can be used to compare and contrast evaluated models. Massive Multitask Language Understanding, MMLU, evaluates the knowledge and problem-solving capabilities of the model.

To perform well, models must have extensive world knowledge and problem-solving ability. The models are tested on more than basic language understanding, such as history, mathematics, laws, computer science, and more. The Beyond the Imitation Game Benchmark, BIG-bench, focuses on tasks that are beyond the capabilities of the current language models. It contains tasks such as math, biology, physics, bias, linguistics, reasoning, childhood development, software development, and more. Another benchmark is the Holistic Evaluation of Language Models, HELM, which is a benchmark to help improve model transparency. It offers users guidance on which model performs well for a given task. HELM is a combination of metrics for tasks such as summarization, question and answer, sentiment analysis, and bias detection. You can also use human workers to manually evaluate your model responses. For example, you can use human workers to compare the responses of SageMaker JumpStart models, and you can also specify responses from models outside AWS.

Additionally, you can use Amazon SageMaker Clarify to evaluate large language models, LLMs, and create model evaluation jobs. A model evaluation job helps to evaluate and compare model quality and metrics for text-based foundation models from SageMaker JumpStart. Amazon Bedrock provides an evaluation module that can automatically compare generated responses and calculate a semantic similarity base score, BERTscore, against a human reference. It is suitable to evaluate faithfulness and hallucinations in text-generation tasks.