And let's talk more about cost tradeoffs for AWS generative AI services. Here is a question, what are the pricing models for LLMs? One pricing model is to host LLMs on your own infrastructure. You are responsible for paying for the computing resources that are required to run these models. And you might have to pay a license fee for the LLM itself. You can also choose to pay by token pricing model.

What is token-based pricing? It is the number of tokens processed, and each token represents a discrete unit of information. For example, units of information might include a character or word in text, or a pixel in an image, or both for input and output. Tokens are the units that vendors use to price calls in their APIs. If you use the AWS and the pay-by-token model, it adds scalability. By hosting your own model will require infrastructure investment and maintenance. We have talked about the AWS ML stack. The AWS Global Infrastructure has architectural components, such as Regions, edge locations, and Availability Zones, and services that are globally resilient, regionally resilient and availability zone resilient.

Many AWS managed services, AMS, are built for specific purpose but have high availability built in. Dive deeper and ensure you know how and why the AWS Global Infrastructure adds high availability and fault tolerance. On top of the infrastructure layer are the AWS machine learning services, such as Amazon SageMaker. And on top of the machine learning layer are the AWS AI services, which are prebuilt services, prebuilt algorithms, models and services that you can use. You can use these services and integrate them into your application. If you know how to integrate with an API, write code and work with the AWS SDK, you can use these services without ML and AI.

Let's talk about AWS services that can help you build applications by using LLMs. SageMaker JumpStart is a model hub and it helps quickly deploy foundation models that are available within the service and integrate them into your applications. It provides fine-tuning and deploying models, and also helps you get quickly into production to operate at scale. JumpStart also provides a lot of resources in terms of blogs, videos, and example notebooks. JumpStart models require GPUs to fine-tune and deploy. You should refer to the SageMaker pricing page before selecting the compute to use. Also, remember to delete the SageMaker model endpoints when not in use and follow cost-monitoring best practices to optimize cost.

Amazon Bedrock is a managed AWS service that lets you use and access a number of different foundation models, FMs, using APIs. These foundation models include models that are curated by AWS in addition to foundation models provided by third parties, such as Cohere and Stability AI, which gives you the ability to interact with different models for different use cases. And you can develop generative AI applications at scale compared to having to build your own FMs from scratch. Amazon Bedrock adds the capability to import custom weights for supportive model architectures, and serve the custom model by using on-demand mode. You only pay for what you use with no time-based term commitment.

Amazon provides its own foundation models too. Currently, the Amazon Titan foundation model provided by Amazon acts as a general-purpose foundation model and is a great option if you require tax generation capabilities. Many of the foundation models offer similar use cases, especially when it comes to tax generation. Therefore, it's important to identify which foundation model would be most suitable for your use case. Amazon Bedrock offers features that can help you do just that through the use of playgrounds and model evaluations. Playgrounds in Amazon Bedrock let you experiment by running model inference against different base foundation models that are supported within the service to help you align your use cases with the highest accuracy. Depending on the model selected for your playground, it will determine the right types of inference parameters that you can adjust. And remember, you can vary the number of inference parameters to determine different completion results. PartyRock is a playground built on Amazon Bedrock. You can use it to build generative AI applications to learn fundamental techniques, such as understanding how a foundation model responds to different prompts. Some examples of applications that you can build in PartyRock are creating playlists, trivia games, recipes, and more. Let's wrap up this lesson and continue talking about the advantages of using AWS generative AI services to build applications. Most of us will not train our own LLMs because training requires investing, research, collecting and cleaning quality data, time, and more. Also, most of us will not host our own model because of the hardware expenses and the expense to store the data.

Remember that with generative AI, you can use vector databases, and that data is stored as embeddings. These embeddings are vectors that can be compressed, stored and indexed for advanced searches. AWS can help you build and scale generative AI applications that deliver new customer and employee experiences. You can customize your data and your use cases. You can use industry-leading FMs and LLMs of all sizes and types and generative AI-powered duplications with enterprise-grade security and privacy. I'm going to wrap up this lesson. Now, let's get started with our walkthrough questions.