Let's get started with the third task statement from Domain 2, which is to: Describe AWS infrastructure and technologies for building generative AI applications. This task statement is split into two lessons. For this task statement, let's continue to talk about advantages of using AWS generative AI services to build applications. These advantages include accessibility, lower barrier to entry, efficiency, cost-effectiveness, speed to market, and ability to meet business objectives.

It's important to understand that it takes a long time to train an LLM and then to process all the data. This data might contain millions of calculations. The process of fine-tuning and training a pre-trained model on a new dataset without training from scratch is also known as transfer learning. It can produce accurate models with smaller datasets and less training time. You can accelerate the learning for some types of models by using transfer learning, then use a pre-trained model as your starting point for the training of a new dataset. You can create your own pre-trained set or get them from the internet. The generalized model from the generalized dataset can be transferred into your training process with a new dataset.

Then, when you train your model, the algorithm already knows some information and understands what it needs to do. Then it only needs to figure out how those elements map to your new dataset. SageMaker JumpStart helps to find projects that are already built and are quick builds with datasets, models, algorithm types, and solutions based on industry best practices. This task statement also includes understanding the benefits of AWS infrastructure for generative AI applications, especially security, compliance, responsibility, and safety. In task statement 2.2, we talked about customer experiences using your generative AI applications. But customers are also building generative AI applications by using large language models, LLMs, and other foundation models, FMs, to enhance experiences. These models can also transform operations, improve employee productivity, and create new revenue.

I added a link for the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework for Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Generative AI, CAF-AI. It serves us both a starting point and a guide for your journey in AI, ML, and generative AI. The framework can be used as a resource for discussions about your AI strategy with your team, and also when collaborating with coworkers and AWS Partners. Foundation models and the applications built on them are valuable investments for organizations.

One of the biggest concerns that we hear about with generative AI applications is securing sensitive business data. For example, this data includes personal data, compliance data, operational data, and financial information. At AWS, our top priority is security and ensuring confidentiality of our customers' workloads. We think about security across the three layers of generative AI stack. The bottom layer provides the tools for building and training LLMs and other FMs. AI can have large hardware demands for training, large amounts of compute resources for inference, and guardrails for consumption. Price compared to performance is one of the key factors in setting standards for your organization. With AWS, you can use specialized hardware that can help reduce costs, with better price performance than traditional CPUs or GPUs.

The AWS Nitro System has specialized hardware and associated firmware that are designed to enforce security restrictions. These restrictions are to ensure that no one can access your workloads or data running on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, Amazon EC2, instances. This protection applies to all Nitro-based applications and instances. They include instances with ML accelerator, such as AWS Inferentia, AWS Trainium, and instances with GPUs, like P4, P5, G5, and G6.

At AWS, securing AI infrastructure means zero access to sensitive AI data, such as AI model weights and data processed with those models by any unauthorized person. The middle layer provides access to all the models, along with tools that you need to build and scale generative AI applications. You can design how your platform supports the development, deployment, and iteration of AWS ML and AI services. For example, ML services train or tune foundation models. And in this layer, all services consume models and capabilities, such as the large and costly to train foundation models in the generative AI domain. The top layer includes applications that use LLMs and other FMs to write and debug code, generate content, derive insights, and take actions. It might be a dashboard or a foundation model that you can use for prompt engineering, or it might be a specific generative AI architecture, such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation, RAG, applications.

What are the three critical components of any AI system? It's input, model, and output. These components can be protected by establishing security policies, standards, and guidelines, along with the roles and responsibilities related to AI workloads. AI systems can have specific vulnerabilities, such as prompt injection, data poisoning, and model inversion vulnerabilities. Remember to validate policies, because risks associated with an AI can have consequences, including privacy breaches, data manipulation, abuse, and compromised decision-making. Ensure that you understand why it's important to implement encryption, multi-factor authentication, continuous monitoring, and alignment to your tolerance and frameworks. I'm going to pause this lesson here, and in the next lesson, we will continue with task statement 2.3.