Migrating to the cloud is a process. You don't just snap your fingers and have everything magically hosted in AWS. It takes a lot of effort to get applications migrated to AWS, and having a successful cloud migration is something that requires expertise. 

Luckily, many people have had successful cloud migrations in the past, and you're not the first one to have solutions in AWS. Because of this, a lot of the knowledge around how to go about hosting on AWS has been captured and shared. 


That being said, what position you hold in your organization will impact the things that you need to know or help with for your migration. If you are a developer, your role and viewpoint will be much different than a cloud architect, business analyst or financial analyst. Different types of people bring different perspectives to the table for migration, and you want to harness those different perspectives and make sure everyone is on the same page. 


You also want to ensure that you have the right talent to help support your migration, so HR will need to hire at the correct rate to enable your migration. This can be a lot to keep track of, and someone new to the cloud might not think of all the different people who need to be involved. 


The AWS professional services team has created something called the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework that can help you manage this process through guidance. The Cloud Adoption Framework exists to provide advice to your company to enable a quick and smooth migration to AWS. 


The framework organizes guidance into six areas focused on the different types of people that you'll need to involve for your migration. Just like the different perspectives that we talked about earlier. Each Perspective covers distinct responsibilities covered by different groups. The different Perspectives are Business, People, and Governance Perspectives, which focus on the business capabilities, and then you have the Platform, Security and Operations Perspectives which focus on the technical capabilities. Someone who is a business or finance analysts would fall under the Business Perspective, HR would fall under the People Perspective, and a cloud architect would fall under the Platform Perspective.

 
Each Perspective is used to uncover gaps in your skills and processes, which are then recorded as inputs. These inputs are then used as the basis for creating what is called an AWS Cloud Adoption Framework Action Plan that you then use to guide your organization's change management as you journey to the cloud. Having an action plan that makes sense for your organization can help keep you on track. 


Migrating to the cloud can be complicated, but again, you're not alone in this, there are tons of resources to help you get started, and the Cloud Adoption Framework is a great place to look.

At the highest level, the AWS Cloud Adoption Framework (AWS CAF)organizes guidance into six areas of focus, called Perspectives. Each Perspective addresses distinct responsibilities. The planning process helps the right people across the organization prepare for the changes ahead.

In general, the Business, People, and Governance Perspectives focus on business capabilities, whereas the Platform, Security, and Operations Perspectives focus on technical capabilities.

The Business Perspective ensures that IT aligns with business needs and that IT investments link to key business results.

Use the Business Perspective to create a strong business case for cloud adoption and prioritize cloud adoption initiatives. Ensure that your business strategies and goals align with your IT strategies and goals.

The People Perspective supports development of an organization-wide change management strategy for successful cloud adoption.



Use the People Perspective to evaluate organizational structures and roles, new skill and process requirements, and identify gaps. This helps prioritize training, staffing, and organizational changes.

The Governance Perspective focuses on the skills and processes to align IT strategy with business strategy. This ensures that you maximize the business value and minimize risks.



Use the Governance Perspective to understand how to update the staff skills and processes necessary to ensure business governance in the cloud. Manage and measure cloud investments to evaluate business outcomes.

The Platform Perspective includes principles and patterns for implementing new solutions on the cloud, and migrating on-premises workloads to the cloud.



Use a variety of architectural models to understand and communicate the structure of IT systems and their relationships. Describe the architecture of the target state environment in detail.

The Security Perspective ensures that the organization meets security objectives for visibility, auditability, control, and agility. 



Use the AWS CAF to structure the selection and implementation of security controls that meet the organization’s needs.

The Operations Perspective helps you to enable, run, use, operate, and recover IT workloads to the level agreed upon with your business stakeholders.



Define how day-to-day, quarter-to-quarter, and year-to-year business is conducted. Align with and support the operations of the business. The AWS CAF helps these stakeholders define current operating procedures and identify the process changes and training needed to implement successful cloud adoption.