Some of our customers need to get data to AWS and most of them would like to do it in an efficient and timely manner. The usual route is to simply copy the required data over the internet or better yet, if they have a Direct Connect line. However, with the limitations of bandwidth, in general, this can take days, weeks, or even months. 



For example, a dedicated one gigabyte per second network connection theoretically moves one petabyte of data in about 100 days and in the real world likely longer and at a higher cost, with this customer feedback and as a way to address this gap, we therefore introduce AWS Snow Family of devices. 



The first device, which is also our newest offering, is called AWS Snowcone and it's a device that holds up to eight terabytes of data and contains edge computing. Edge computing options are Amazon EC2 instances and AWS IoT Greengrass. To obtain one, you place an order via AWS Management Console we ship it to you, you plug it in and copy your data, and finally, ship it back to us. We'll then copy the data to your AWS account, usually an Amazon S3 bucket that you own, and boom, Bob is your uncle and your data is available to use. Customers usually use these devices to ship terabytes of information such as analytics data, video libraries, image collections, backups, and even tape replacement data. I mean, who doesn't have a terabyte collection of cat images, that they want to backup to the AWS Cloud? 



But what if eight terabytes is not enough? Well, good news, we have a product for that requirement called Snowball Edge. It comes in two versions: a Snowball Edge Compute Optimized option and a Snowball Edge Storage Optimized option. Even better is that they fit into existing server racks and can be clustered for greater computing needs. Ones you plug them into your infrastructure, you can even run AWS Lambda functions, Amazon EC2-compatible AMI's, or even AWS IoT Greengrass to perform simple processing of data right then and there. Customers usually ship these to remote locations, where it's trickier to have a lot of computing power lying around. The use cases include capturing of streams from IoT devices, image compression, video transcoding, and even industrial signaling. 



The last device that's up for grabs is also the largest in our fleet, the AWS Snowmobile, and as the name suggests, it's housed in a 45-foot rugged shipping container and pulled along by a freaking truck, I mean this thing is huge. It houses 100 petabytes and is ideal for the largest migrations and even data center shutdowns. We drive the truck to your designated location, plug it in, and it then appears as a network attached storage device with, like I said, capacity of up to 100 petabytes. It is tamper resistant, waterproof, temperature controlled, it even has fire suppression and GPS tracking. I mean, can you believe that it also has 24/7 video surveillance with a dedicated security team and escort security vehicle during transit? That's some serious business. 



But it should be noted that all Snow Family devices are designed to be secure and tamper-resistant while on-site or in transit. This means the hardware and software is cryptographically signed, and all data stored is automatically encrypted using 256-bit encryption keys, owned and managed by you, the customer. You can even use AWS Key Management Service to generate and manage keys. 

The AWS Snow Familyis a collection of physical devices that help to physically transport up to exabytes of data into and out of AWS. 

AWS Snow Family is composed of AWS Snowcone, AWS Snowball, and AWS Snowmobile. 

These devices offer different capacity points, and most include built-in computing capabilities. AWS owns and manages the Snow Family devices and integrates with AWS security, monitoring, storage management, and computing capabilities.  

AWS Snowconeis a small, rugged, and secure edge computing and data transfer device. 



It features 2 CPUs, 4 GB of memory, and up to 14 TB of usable storage.

AWS Snowballoffers two types of devices:

Snowball Edge Storage Optimized devices are well suited for large-scale data migrations and recurring transfer workflows, in addition to local computing with higher capacity needs. 
Storage: 80 TB of hard disk drive (HDD) capacity for block volumes and Amazon S3 compatible object storage, and 1 TB of SATA solid state drive (SSD) for block volumes. 
Compute: 40 vCPUs, and 80 GiB of memory to support Amazon EC2 sbe1 instances (equivalent to C5).
Snowball Edge Compute Optimized provides powerful computing resources for use cases such as machine learning, full motion video analysis, analytics, and local computing stacks. 
Storage: 80-TB usable HDD capacity for Amazon S3 compatible object storage or Amazon EBS compatible block volumes and 28 TB of usable NVMe SSD capacity for Amazon EBS compatible block volumes. 
Compute: 104 vCPUs, 416 GiB of memory, and an optional NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPU. Devices run Amazon EC2 sbe-c and sbe-g instances, which are equivalent to C5, M5a, G3, and P3 instances.

AWS Snowmobileis an exabyte-scale data transfer service used to move large amounts of data to AWS. 



You can transfer up to 100 petabytes of data per Snowmobile, a 45-foot long ruggedized shipping container, pulled by a semi trailer truck.