In this video, you will be introduced to the AWS AI/ML infrastructure and the different layers and domains for building applications using these AI/ML technologies.

 

The stack starts at the ML frameworks layer. At the core of this layer is Amazon SageMaker. SageMaker is a fully managed machine learning service that you can use to build, train, and deploy your own custom models. SageMaker provides tools and infrastructure to accelerate your ML development and deployment lifecycle.

 

Next is the AI/ML services layer, where you find a wide array of specialized services tailored for different use cases. In the text and documents domain, there is Amazon Comprehend for natural language processing, Amazon Translate for language translation, and Amazon Textract for extracting data from scanned documents.

 

For chatbots, AWS offers Amazon Lex, which you can use to build conversational interfaces powered by the same deep learning technologies that drive Amazon Alexa. In the speech domain, you can find Amazon Polly for text-to-speech and Amazon Transcribe for automatic speech recognition.

 

In the vision domain, you have Amazon Rekognition, a deep learning-based computer vision service that can analyze images and videos for a wide range of applications. For search, Amazon Kendra reimagines enterprise search for websites and applications so that individuals can readily find the content they are looking for.

 

In the recommendations domain, we have Amazon Personalize for real-time personalization and recommendations. Finally, in the miscellaneous category, there is AWS DeepRacer, a fully autonomous 1/18th scale race car that lets you get hands-on experience with reinforcement learning.

 

AWS offers even more in the generative AI layer. You will find a set of services and tools that unlock the power of foundation models. This includes Amazon SageMaker JumpStart, which provides a set of solutions for the most common use cases.

Amazon Bedrock is a fully managed service that makes FMs from Amazon and leading AI startups available through an API. With Amazon Bedrock, you can quickly get started, experiment with FMs, privately customize them with your own data, and seamlessly integrate and deploy FMs into AWS applications. If you'd prefer to experiment with building AI applications, you can get hands-on experience by using PartyRock, an Amazon Bedrock Playground.

Finally, you have applications like Amazon Q, a generative AI–powered assistant designed for work that can be tailored for a business's data. And there is Amazon Q Developer, providing ML–powered code recommendations to accelerate development in a variety of programming languages and applications.

 

Each of these services is designed to empower you to harness the potential of AI and ML, driving innovation, efficiency, and growth.