MasterCard International Inc. is the second largest credit card network by purchasing volume. Each transaction that comes through their network is instantly given a score to determine the probability of fraud using AI. By training a fraud detection model with SageMaker, MasterCard has been able to triple the number of detected fraudulent transactions. It also has reduced the number of false positives by a factor of 10.

In 2024 MasterCard announced that they have now added generative AI to help improve fraud detection by 20% on average. The large language model is given the customer's transaction history as a prompt. The model predicts if the business involved in the transaction is a place the customer would likely go and factors this in the score.

DoorDash needed to replace an outdated interactive voice response, IVR system, which required customers to navigate prompts using touch tones. Customers were frustrated and often just pressed 0 to speak to a live agent who had to route them to someone else. DoorDash implemented a new system that uses Amazon Lex, natural language processing to let customers just speak instead of pressing buttons. This improved the customer experience, decreased hold times, and increased self-service adoption.

Laredo Petroleum operates more than 1,300 oil and gas wells in west Texas. The wells use pressure, temperature, and flow rate sensors to measure important operational parameters. Laredo implemented a data streaming solution on AWS and built ML models using Amazon SageMaker to monitor the data in real time. This allows their operations teams to know where to focus their maintenance efforts and avoid potential issues. Proactive monitoring on AWS helps them quickly identify and remediate issues that could result in flaring or venting of natural gas. This is an important way of reducing environmental impact. They also deployed models to detect leaks in their storage tanks and corridor lines.

Booking.com is a travel marketplace for hotels, flights, rental cars, and attractions. Booking.com provides over 28 million accommodation listings and flight locations in over 54 countries, managing over 150 petabytes of data. They use Amazon SageMaker to build machine learning models to provide booking recommendations. For the best customer experience, they created an application called the AI Trip Planner, which uses generative AI to engage with customers using natural language. As soon as the AI Trip Planner understands what the customer is looking for, it calls the booking recommendation API and retrieves customer reviews before making recommendations to the customer. This is an example of Retrieval Augmented Generation.

That is what makes generative AI models more accurate and current with their responses. Pinterest is a visual discovery engine that hosts billions of images for over 450 million users to explore, save, and share as pins to personalized digital inspiration boards.

The Pinterest app offers a feature called Pinterest Lens, which lets the user take a picture of an object. Then Pinterest will immediately show them similar items for sale, linking them directly to the product in online catalogs. Pinterest maintains a massive collection of labeled product images in Amazon S3 and frequently re-trains their machine learning model to learn new objects. They label the images using Amazon Mechanical Turk and SageMaker Ground Truth.