Concerns about the risks of AI have resulted in the development of several standards of compliance for AI workloads. Following these standards will help protect your business and customers and ensure fairness in decision making. Depending on your company's industry, you might also need to uphold standards specific to your industry. Regular audits or inspections will ensure that the company has met those standards. Recall that on AWS, security and compliance are a shared responsibility between AWS and the customer.

To explain the division of responsibility, AWS created the AWS Shared Responsibility Model. The AWS Shared Responsibility Model applies to both security and compliance. AWS is responsible for meeting the compliance requirements of the cloud by securing the underlying physical data centers and infrastructure. The customer is responsible for securing their workloads in the cloud to meet the compliance requirements. AWS maintains rigorous security and compliance certifications and attestations for data center operations, technology, and security. Compliance standards typically include a list of security and operational controls that must be tested and validated by external auditors. With a shared responsibility model, AWS customers inherit some of these controls from AWS. AWS has those controls audited by a third party and makes the auditor's reports available to customers.

AWS Artifact is a service that makes compliance reports from third-party auditors available to customers. Though you can't send your own auditors to an AWS data center, you can give these reports to them. This practice reduces the scope of their audit because the compliance controls in the reports are inherited by the customer. Your auditors only need to focus on your processes and procedures as you deploy and run workloads in the cloud. Auditors have tested and verified that AWS is compliant with a variety of global, regional, and industry-specific security standards and regulations. You can find these compliance reports and regulations in AWS Artifact. Each report includes a description of its contents, and the reporting period for which the documentation is valid. As a global cloud provider, AWS must maintain compliance with standards from around the world. By doing so, it gains the trust of customers who are deploying potentially sensitive workloads on AWS.

For example, a service organization controls, SOC report, is a way to verify that a third party is following some specific best practices. This information is important to a customer before outsourcing a business function to that organization. SOC 2 reports and controls related to security, availability, processing, integrity, confidentiality, and privacy. If a company wants to achieve SOC 2 for their customers, they use the AWS SOC 2 report as a starting point. Then they have an auditor verify that they have configured the security controls they are responsible for correctly. As another example, ISO 27001 is an international security management standard that specifies security management best practices and comprehensive security controls. Because AWS has achieved a certification for compliance with the standards, it can help a customer's organization to get the certification. The customer compliance center is a set of resources to help you learn about AWS compliance. In the customer compliance center, you can read customer compliance stories about how companies in regulated industries have solved various compliance, governance, and audit challenges. You can access compliance whitepapers and documentation on various topics. These topics include AWS answers to key compliance questions, an overview of AWS risk and compliance, and an auditing security checklist.

Additionally, the customer compliance center includes an auditor learning path. Individuals in auditing compliance and legal roles might want to learn more about how their internal operations can use the AWS Cloud to demonstrate compliance.