 Data governance is the combination of people, process, and technology that is used to manage the availability, usability, integrity, and security of enterprise system data. Effective data governance ensures the data is consistent and trustworthy without being misused. Data governance can be broken down into three major parts.

Curation, discovery and understanding, and protection. Curating your data at scale means identifying and managing your most valuable data sources, including databases, data lakes, and data warehouses. By curating your data, you can limit the proliferation and transformation of critical data assets. Curating your data at scale means identifying and managing your most valuable data sources, including databases, data lakes, and data warehouses. By curating your data, you can limit the proliferation and transformation of critical data assets. Curating data also means ensuring that the data is accurate, fresh, and free of sensitive information so that users can have confidence in data-driven decisions.

Understanding your data in context means that users can discover and comprehend the meaning of their data to use it confidently to drive business value. With a centralized data catalog, data can be found easily. Access can be requested and data can be used to make business decisions.

Protecting your data means being able to strike the right balance between data privacy, security, and access. It's essential to be able to govern data across organizational boundaries with tools that are intuitive for both business and engineering users. Data governance focuses on ensuring the data is treated as a strategic asset and on developing competencies to put that strategic asset to effective use, exercise authority and control over your data to meet stakeholder expectations. Start with the data domains that are necessary to succeed with the targeted business initiatives. Define key data governance roles and responsibilities such as data owners, stewards, and IT.

While taking segregation of duties into account, assign key roles to appropriate individuals in your organization. Data owners should be recognized at an organizational level that includes both technology and business representatives. Data stewardship should be a responsibility of all data-facing business personnel. A data steward is a person from the business who has detailed knowledge of the data needed to support targeted business initiatives. Data stewards are involved in the details of projects day to day. They help understand the data issues that are likely to cause challenges with business initiatives.

A data owner is an executive-level person who makes data policy decisions, including regulatory and compliance policies. They decide, for example, who has access to claims data and who has access to customer data. A direct relationship exists between the data owner and the data steward. The data steward completes daily tasks for projects and the data owner owns policies about the data that guides the work of the data steward. Roles in IT help navigate systems that produce and consume data and provide data stewards with the right tools and capabilities. For example, IT might be responsible for managing and deploying data governance tools in AWS.

With data profiling, data is systematically examined to determine whether anything is wrong with the data and to understand data characteristics for various purposes. A data catalog makes sure that the data is available for people who need access to it. Data lineage identifies where specific data elements originated and how the data was moved, transformed, and stored. When data consumers see data in a report, they often question where the data came from and any calculations made along the way. AWS Glue DataBrew is a visual data preparation tool that users can use to clean and normalize data without writing any code. It has two features that are helpful for data governance.

The first is data profiling. You can use AWS Glue DataBrew to run profiling jobs against your dataset to create a data profile. This profile tells you about the existing shape of your data, including the context of the content, the structure of the data, and its relationship. You can define data quality rules and these rules are validated during the profiling. to detect problems with the data.

AWS Glue DataBrew can analyze many types of datasets, including data that's stored in Amazon S3 and in relational data bases and data warehouses. In addition to creating a data profile, AWS Glue DataBrew tracks your data in a visual interface to determine its origin called the data lineage. This view shows you how the data flows through different entities from where it originally came. You can see its origin, other entities that influenced it, what happened to it over time, and where it was stored