AI systems might have specific vulnerabilities that you should be aware of so that you can detect and mitigate potential security threats. An AI model learns its behavior from training data. If a malicious actor gains access to the training data, they can introduce data that will change the model's predictions.

For example, suppose that a fraud detection model is trained on financial transactions that are labeled as fraud and not fraud, then an attacker could add certain fraudulent transactions to the data that are labeled as not fraud. The model would then misclassify these transactions, which permits the attacker to commit fraud without being detected. Even without gaining access to training data, an attacker can cause a model to make mistakes. An attacker can slightly manipulate input data in a way that will cause the model to misclassify it. For example, a company uses a face recognition model to recognize employees. An attacker can make subtle but carefully designed modifications to their image to cause the model to recognize them as someone else. This kind of attack is known as adversarial inputs. A sophisticated attacker can cause a model's output to infer the training data. Known as model inversion, the attacker keeps feeding data into the model and studying the outputs. For example, the facial recognition model is trained on employee images, and its output is the employee's name and the confidence score. The attacker can repeatedly feed the model facial images, making changes until the output is an employee's name and a high-confidence score. The hacker then has a good image of an employee that they can use to pretend to be the employee.

Also, with enough input and output pairs, an attacker can create a new model that works in reverse. That is they can train a new model on the original model's outputs, and use it to infer the training input data. Similarly, the hacker can reverse engineer the model and make their own model that is very similar to original model. The more information the hacker has about the model, the more accurate their copy will be.

Large language models are vulnerable to a type of attack known as prompt injection. In this kind of attack, an attacker gives malicious instructions to the model in the prompt with the goal of influencing its output. For example, the attacker can prompt the LLM to ignore or alter its prompt template, which would permit the attacker to gain sensitive information. Customers who deploy AI systems must proactively mitigate against potential attacks by securing and limiting access to data and models. They also need to monitor models in production for drift and anomalies. Access should always follow the principle of least privilege. On AWS, this means configuring appropriate permissions policies and blocking public access. As an extra layer of protection, data and artifacts should be encrypted. You should limit and control access to the model to block reverse engineering. Input data from users must be inspected and validated. The input to your model should be looking for unusual patterns.

For example, you can teach an LLM to detect prompt injection by using key attack patterns and return the response prompt attack detected. Also, don't provide any unnecessary information in the model output. If you do, an attacker might be able to use it to infer information about the model. To help a model avoid being tricked, you should train models with adversarial input. Also, you can train your models frequently on new data so that any damage from corrupted training data will be undone. You should keep a separate set of data for validation purposes and validate your model after each re-training before deploying. You should also routinely scan and monitor your data for quality and detect anomalies before using it for training.

Finally, your model's predictions could change from their historical pattern. This occurrence should be investigated to determine whether the root cause is low data quality or an attack. Amazon SageMaker Model Monitor monitors the quality of Amazon SageMaker machine learning models in production. After deploying a model into your production environment, use Amazon SageMaker Model Monitor to continuously monitor the quality of your models in real time. You can use Amazon SageMaker Model Monitor to set up an automated alert system for deviations in model quality, such as data drift or anomalies. Amazon SageMaker Model Monitor also can be used for monitoring data quality. SageMaker Model compares the data and model with baselines. It generates statistics and metrics that are visible on SageMaker Studio and also sent to Amazon CloudWatch.

Amazon CloudWatch Logs collect files of monitoring the model status. It notifies you when the quality of your model hits preset thresholds. CloudWatch stores the log files to an Amazon S3 bucket you specify. With early and proactive detection of model deviations through AWS model monitor products, you can take prompt actions. In this way, you can maintain and improve the quality of your deployed model. To use SageMaker Model Monitor to monitor data quality, you must enable data capture. This captures the inference input and output from an inference endpoint or batch transform job and stores the data in S3. To create a baseline, you can usually use the training dataset. You then schedule data quality monitoring jobs that generate statistics for the baseline dataset and the current dataset that is being analyzed. You can view the results in SageMaker Studio. A similar process uses SageMaker Model Monitor to monitor model performance. You use labeled data to create a baseline. After the model quality job runs, it'll compare the inferences with label data from SageMaker Ground Truth for the same inputs, then it will evaluate the performance. You can view the results in SageMaker Studio.