On AWS, security and compliance is a shared responsibility between AWS and the customer. To explain the division of responsibility, AWS created the Shared Responsibility Model. The Shared Responsibility Model shows the division of customer and AWS responsibilities. These divided responsibilities are commonly referred to as customer responsibilities, or security in the cloud, and AWS responsibilities, or security of the cloud. The cloud itself, the data centers, networking and physical hardware is secured by AWS. AWS makes these resources available to customers as cloud-based web services. The customers are responsible for using these services in a secure manner by limiting access, using encryption and following recommended best practices. AWS protects and secures the global infrastructure, including AWS Regions, Availability Zones, and data centers down to the physical security of the buildings.

AWS manages the hardware, software, and networking components that run AWS services, such as physical servers, host operating systems, virtualization layers and AWS networking components. When you use any AWS service, you are responsible for properly configuring the service and your applications in addition to ensuring that your data is secure. The level of responsibility that you have depends on the service. For example, you can choose to deploy your AI models on Amazon EC2, but then you would be responsible for the instance operating system, security patches, scaling, the security of the applications running on it. However, you could also host your model with SageMaker Serverless Inferencing. This fully managed service requires little management from customers. AWS manages all the underlying infrastructure, so you have no need to manage instances or scaling policies.

As we've seen, customers are responsible for using AWS in a secure manner. AWS Identity and Access Management is how customers manage permissions in their account. AWS Identity and Access Management, or IAM, is a web service that helps you manage and secure access to your AWS accounts and resources. With IAM, you can create and manage AWS users and grant them permissions to use services in your account. You control what they can do by assigning IAM permission policies that determine which actions a user can take on a resource. IAM is a global resource and not specific to any one Region. However, it is possible to use IAM to restrict a user's permissions to certain Regions. IAM is integrated with AWS services. IAM is used to manage the actions that users can take on the resources in your account. You can grant other people permissions to administer and use resources in your AWS account without having to share your password and access keys. IAM supports multifactor authentication, or MFA. You can add MFA to your account and to individual users for extra security, IAM supports identity federation. You can allow users who already have passwords elsewhere, for example, in your corporate network or within an internet identity provider, to get temporary access to your AWS account. IAM is a feature of your AWS account that is offered at no additional charge. You are only charged when you access other AWS services by using your IAM users.

When you first create an AWS account, you begin with a single identity that has complete access to all AWS services and resources in the account. This identity is called the AWS root user. The root user is accessed by signing in with the email address and password that you use to create the account. Because the root user permissions cannot be restricted, you need to keep its credentials safe. To ensure the safety of the root user, you should choose a strong password when creating your account and enable multifactor authentication for the root user. Never share your root user password and access keys with anyone. Disable or the delete the access keys associated with a root user because you won't need them after you create other users. Best practice is to not use the root user except for very few things that require it, like billing account management. Instead, you should create an IAM user and use that user for everyday tasks. You can assign an administrative access permissions policy to that user to give you all the permissions that you'll need. Using a username and password to log in into an AWS account is a single-factor authentication. Single-factor authentication is the simplest and most common form of authentication. Even if you choose a strong password for your root account, your account is still considered at risk.

For example, if a bad actor figures out your password through social engineering, bots, or scripts, then they can access your account and delete valuable data. They can also spin up an expensive cryptocurrency mining operation, leaving you with a bill. To help protect your account from malicious acts, you can use multifactor authentication, or MFA. With MFA, even if someone guesses or figures out your username and password, they cannot gain access to your account. They would need the numbers generated by the physical or virtual MFA device in your possession. AWS recommends you to enable MFA immediately after you create your AWS account. An IAM user is an identity that you create in AWS. It represents a person that interacts with AWS services and resources. It consists of a name and credentials. As a best practice, create individual IAM users for each person who must access AWS, even if multiple users require the same level of access. Provide each user their unique security credentials. Users should not share their credentials. If they do, you lose visibility into which user is taking actions in your account. By default, when you create a new IAM user in AWS, it has no permissions associated with it. To allow an IAM user to perform specific actions in AWS, such as configuring resources, you must grant the IAM user the necessary permissions.