An alternative to creating and managing IAM users in your account is to use identity federation. Identity federation is when your users authenticate with an identity provider like Active Directory. After they authenticate, they are given temporary credentials for AWS. AWS IAM Identity Center lets you use an external identity provider like Active Directory to authenticate users, or you can create a directory in IAM Identity Center and use that to authenticate. IAM Identity Center refers to users as workforce users or workforce identities. Once authenticated, workforce users are directed to a portal where they can choose to access an AWS console, or they can obtain temporary access keys for any AWS account for which they have permissions. This is a big advantage for organizations that use multiple AWS accounts. Instead of managing IAM users in each account, they can add them to AWS Identity Center and manage permissions for all accounts in one central repository. You can also use AWS Identity Center to put users into groups and assign permission sets at the group level. AWS Identity Center uses roles to grant temporary permissions, which is a better practice than long-lived credentials. As a result, AWS recommends using IAM Identity Center for managing users instead of IAM. To be able to audit and validate your security configuration, you must be able to log and review the actions that users are taking.

AWS CloudTrail captures API calls and related events that are made by or on behalf of your AWS account. CloudTrail delivers the log files to an Amazon S3 bucket that you specify. Amazon SageMaker is integrated with CloudTrail. CloudTrail captures all API calls for SageMaker except for invoking endpoints. For example, when users create a training job or notebook instance, this action is logged in the trail. Using the information collected by CloudTrail, you can determine the request that was made to SageMaker. You can also find out the IP address from which the request was made, who made the request, and when it was made, and also additional details. Under the AWS shared responsibility model, customers are responsible for managing access to their data, which means keeping training data and artifacts private and secure. Amazon S3 Block Public Access is a feature that you can use to block public access to all your objects. You can block them at the bucket or account level now, and in the future. If enabled at the bucket level, some buckets in your account might be open to the public. When enabled at the account level, no buckets, existing or new, can grant public access.

When S3 Block Public Access is enabled, it will override any public permissions granted by bucket policies or access control lists. Instead of having to create IAM permissions policies yourself, Amazon SageMaker Role Manager greatly simplifies creating IAM roles that grant permissions to perform ML activities. SageMaker Role Manager provides three pre-configured role personas and predefined permissions for 12 ML activities. They include permissions to access other services like Amazon S3, AWS Glue, Amazon Athena, and Amazon CloudWatch. They also give permissions to manage and monitor SageMaker models, endpoints, training jobs, pipelines, and experiments. The data scientist persona is for someone who needs to use SageMaker to perform general machine learning development and experimentation. The MLOps persona is for someone who is managing models, pipelines, experiments, and endpoints, but doesn't need to access the data in Amazon S3. The SageMaker compute persona is used for creating a role that SageMaker compute resources can use to perform tasks such as training and inference.

When you create a role by using SageMaker Role Manager, you choose a persona that will have the appropriate activities for that persona preselected. You can customize which activities are enabled if you like. In this way, it will create the permissions policy for the role for you. You also have the option to add additional IAM policies