Another customer responsibility to keep your data secure is to ensure that it is encrypted. This requirement is also common in compliance standards. All AWS services offer the ability to encrypt data at rest and in transit. By encrypting your data at rest, even if someone could access your data on a storage volume, they would not be able to read it. AWS provides several features that customers can use to easily encrypt data and manage the encryption keys. Encryption keys are used together with an encryption algorithm to encrypt data before it's written to storage. To decrypt the data, you again need access to encryption keys. So getting access to the data isn't enough to be able to read it. Encryption can be accomplished on the client's side where the customer encrypts the data before sending it to an AWS service. Or encryption can be accomplished on the server side, where the AWS service encrypts the data.

Server-side encryption is the easiest way for a customer to ensure that encryption is implemented correctly and applied consistently. It is usually an option that you enable when configuring a resource. However, some AWS services, like Amazon S3, Amazon DynamoDB, and Amazon SageMaker, will encrypt your data by default without your having to enable it. For example, SageMaker will encrypt all the data on ML storage volumes, including the ones that are used by notebook instances, SageMaker jobs, and endpoints. Services with default encryption use keys that are owned by the service and not by the customer. If you need more control, you can use the AWS Key Management Service, or AWS KMS, for using encryption keys that belong to your account. You can use AWS KMS to create, manage, and use encryption keys in your AWS account. Using IAM policies, you can control the use of the keys.

By using policies to control which user or service can access a key, you're adding another layer of protection to your data. For example, suppose that someone is accidentally granted read permissions to your S3 bucket. They won't be able to read the data unless they also have permissions to use the AWS KMS key that is needed to decrypt it. Services with default encryption, like Amazon S3 and SageMaker, will use their own keys unless you specify an AWS KMS key to use. AWS KMS lets you use keys that AWS manages or ones that you control. Use customer-managed keys to control the key policies and IAM policies for the key, the key rotation, and to enable or disable the key. All AWS service endpoints support TLS to create a secure HTTPS connection to make API requests. As a result, all requests to Amazon S3 and SageMaker through the APIs and console are made over a secure encrypted connection. SageMaker distributed training, uses multiple nodes in a cluster.

By default, inter-node traffic is not encrypted, but an option exists to enable it. Although this encryption might be required for very sensitive data, enabling inter-node encryption can increase training times for some algorithms, particularly deep learning ones. Amazon Macie continually evaluates your S3 buckets and automatically generates an inventory of their size and state. It includes private or public access, shared access with other AWS accounts, and the encryption status. Macie also uses ML and pattern matching to identify and alert you to sensitive data, such as personal identifiable information, or PII. These alerts can be integrated in your machine learning workflow to take automated remediation actions. In general, PII should be removed from training data at the point of ingestion and transformation. For example, there is no reason to train a model on credit card numbers, names, addresses, or social security numbers. Macie will alert you if it finds sensitive data in your S3 bucket, and if it is in your training data, you must remove it. Customers are also responsible for managing the security configuration of their cloud infrastructure.

AWS provides virtual private clouds, or VPCs, for customers to be able to configure their own private networks on AWS. Amazon SageMaker Studio and SageMaker notebook instances are launched in the VPC that is managed by SageMaker. They are allowed direct internet access by default, which means that you can download popular packages from the internet. However you risk downloading malicious code that would send your data out over the internet. The best practice recommendation is to create a VPC in your account and specify your VPC when launching SageMaker Studio and notebooks. This will create an elastic network interface in your VPC and attach it to the notebook instance.

By using your own VPC, you can control which traffic can access the internet by configuring security groups, network access lists, and network firewalls. You can prevent SageMaker from giving your notebook instances internet access by specifying VPC only for the network access type. SageMaker Studio normally reaches required services like Amazon S3, Amazon CloudWatch, the SageMaker runtime, and the SageMaker API by using the public network. But when you use VPC only mode, the public endpoints for these services are no longer reachable. To keep all network traffic going over only a private network, you can use VPC interface endpoints. VPC interface endpoints connect your VPC directly to AWS services by using AWS PrivateLink. Because SageMaker Studio is running in your VPC, it can access external services by using the VPC interface endpoints