An IAM policy is a JSON document that allows or denies permissions to AWS services and resources. IAM policies permit you to customize users' levels of access to resources. As a best practice, follow the security principle of least privilege, which is granting only the permissions required to complete a task. Here is a JSON document example of an IAM policy that permits a user to start and stop EC2 instances inside an AWS account. Granting permission by assigning policies at the user level is a good idea, but what if you have 3,000 users in your AWS account? Administering access can become a challenge. To ease this challenge, AWS created IAM groups.

An IAM group is a collection of IAM users. When you assign an IAM policy to a group, all users in the group are granted permissions specified by the policy. To manage groups, you might want to organize IAM groups by job functions. For example, suppose that your company is building a software application, and you want to control the process. You could organize your developers into an IAM developer group, your testers into an IAM QA group and your administrators into an IAM admin group, then you could create and assign unique IAM policies to the groups instead of individual users. IAM groups can have many users, and users can belong to many groups. IAM groups cannot belong to other groups.

Best practice is to attach policies to groups and only attach to users any unique permissions that they should have. Permissions policies attached to users and groups use long-lived credentials to access AWS resources. If these get compromised, then someone else could use them. For example, a software developer could include their AWS credentials in software that they're writing and forget to remove them before sharing their code. A better way is to use IAM roles. An IAM role is an identity that a person or an AWS service can assume to gain temporary access to other AWS resources or services. When you assume an IAM role, you get temporary security credentials for your session, which will automatically expire. IAM roles can be used by an IAM user, an AWS service, or a user authenticated by an external identity provider. Each IAM role has an associated trust policy that determines which entities can assume the role.

Permissions policies that are associated with IAM users, groups, and roles are called identity-based policies. Permissions policies can also be applied at the resource level. For example, an AWS policy can be applied to an S3 bucket that controls which users or services can access the bucket and its objects. The policy is known as a resource-based policy. The resulting permissions are the total permissions of the two types. If an action is allowed by an identity-based policy, a resource-based policy or both, then AWS allows the action. An explicit deny in either of these policies overrides the allow. 