Tracking all the artifacts that are used for model production is an essential requirement for reproducing the model to meet regulatory and control requirements. To be able to recreate a model, all the various artifacts that went into its development must be versioned and tracked. Code repositories, such as GitHub and AWS CodeCommit automatically retain versions of source code. This code might include training code, inference code, experiments, and notebooks. Datasets should be stored in Amazon S3 and partitioned with prefixes to uniquely identify the training dataset. Container images stored in Amazon Elastic Container Registry or Amazon ECR are uniquely identified with a unique ID and can also be tagged with additional information.

SageMaker automatically uniquely identifies each training job and stores other metadata such as hyperparameters and the unique identifiers for the container dataset and model output. Model versions can be stored in a model catalog by using SageMaker Model Registry. SageMaker endpoints all have a unique identifier and metadata. For example, the model that is used is automatically tracked as part of the endpoint configuration. Using SageMaker Model Registry, you can catalog models in model groups that contain different versions of a model. Each model package in a model group corresponds to a trained model. You can associate and view model metadata, including training metrics. Models can be deployed directly from the model registry. Model Registry also lets you maintain the status of a model such as spending, approved, or rejected.

Use Amazon SageMaker Model Cards to document, retrieve, and share essential model information from conception to deployment. Risk managers, data scientists, and ML engineers can use model cards to create an immutable record of intended model uses, risk ratings, training details, and evaluation results. Model cards can be exported to PDF and shared with relevant stakeholders. Amazon SageMaker ML Lineage Tracking automatically creates a graphical representation of all the elements of your end-to-end machine learning workflow. You can use this representation to establish model governance, reproduce your workflow, and maintain a record of your work history. Lineage tracking automatically creates tracking entities for trial components and their associated trials and experiments. You can use lineage tracking when you create SageMaker jobs such as processing jobs, training jobs, and batch transform jobs. You can run queries against the lineage data to discover relationships between the entities.

For example, query the lineage to retrieve all the models that use a particular dataset or retrieve datasets that use a container image artifact. Let's recall that a feature is a data property that is used as one of the inputs to train or make predictions with your model. For example, it can describe a column in a data table. Amazon SageMaker Feature Store is a centralized store for features and associated metadata, so features can be easily discovered and reused. Feature Store makes it less complicated to create, share, and manage features for ML development. Feature Store accelerates this process by reducing repetitive data processing and curation work required to convert raw data into features for training and ML algorithm.

You can create workflow pipelines that convert raw data into features and add them to feature groups. You can also view the lineage of a feature group. The lineage includes the information about the execution code of your feature processing workflow. It also includes which data sources were used and how they were ingested to the feature group or feature. Feature Store also supports point in time queries to retrieve the state of each feature as the historical time of interest. Amazon SageMaker Model Dashboard is a centralized portal accessible from the SageMaker console where you can view, search, and explore all models in your account. It aggregates model-related information from several features including Model Monitor and Model Cards. You can visualize workflow lineage and track your endpoint performance. You can track which models are deployed for inference and whether they're used in batch transform jobs, or hosted on endpoints.

If you set up monitors using Model Monitor, you can also track the performance of your models as they make real-time predictions on live data. You can use the dashboard to find models that violate thresholds that you set for data quality, model quality, bias, and explainability. The dashboard's comprehensive presentation of all your monitoring results helps you quickly identify models that don't have these metrics configured.