Welcome to this video on Amazon Simple Storage Service, or Amazon S3. From the name, you've probably guessed that it’s a storage service and it's, well, simple. Most businesses have data that needs to be stored somewhere. For the coffee shop, this could be receipts, images, Excel spreadsheets, employee training videos, and even text files, among others. Storing these files is where Amazon S3 comes in handy because it's a data store that allows you to store and retrieve a virtually unlimited amount of data at any scale. 

Data is stored as objects, but instead of storing them in a file directory, you store them in what we call buckets. Think of a file sitting on your hard drive. That’s an object. And think of a file directory. That’s the bucket. The maximum object size that you can upload is 5 terabytes. You can also version objects to protect them from accidental deletion. What this means is that you always retain the previous versions of an object, like a paper trail. You can even create multiple buckets and store them across different classes or tiers of data. You can then create permissions to limit who can see or even access objects. 

And you can even stage data between different tiers. These tiers offer mechanisms for different storage use cases, such as data that needs to be accessed frequently compared to, audit data that needs to be retained for several years. Let's go through the notable ones. 

The first storage class is called S3 Standard and comes with 11 nines of durability. That means an object stored in S3 Standard has a 99.999999999 percent – that's a lot of nines – probability that it will remain intact after a period of 1 year. That's pretty high. Furthermore, data is stored in such a way that AWS can sustain the concurrent loss of data in two separate storage facilities. This is because data is stored in at least three facilities. So multiple copies reside across locations. Another useful way to use Amazon S3 is static website hosting, where a static website is a collection of HTML files and each file is akin to a physical page of the actual site. You can do this by simply uploading all your HTML, static web assets, and so forth into a bucket and then checking a box to host it as a static website. You can then enter the bucket's URL and bam! Instant website. And we say static, but that doesn't mean you can't have animations and moving parts to your website. That’s a pretty awesome way to start up that coffee blog. 

The next storage class is called S3 Standard-Infrequent Access or S3 Standard-IA. It’s used for data that is accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed. This means it's a perfect place to store backups, disaster recovery files, or any object that requires long-term storage. 

Another storage class or tier lends itself to that example we had earlier about audit data. Say, we need to retain data for several years for auditing purposes. And we don't need it to be retrieved very rapidly. Well, then you can use S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval to archive that data. To use S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval, you can simply move data to it, or you can create vaults and then populate them with archives. And if you have compliance requirements around retaining data for, say, a certain period of time, you can employ an S3 Glacier vault lock policy and lock your vault. You can specify controls such as write once, read many, or WORM, in a vault lock policy and lock the policy from future edits. Once locked, the policy can no longer be changed. You also have three options for retrieval. These range from minutes to hours, and you have the option of uploading directly to S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval or using S3 Lifecycle policies. 

In fact, I don't think we mentioned lifecycle policies up until this point. But they are policies you can create that can move data automatically between tiers. For example, say we need to keep an object in S3 Standard for 90 days, and then we want to move it to S3 Standard-IA for the next 30 days. Then after 120 days total, we want to move it to S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval. With Lifecycle policies, you create that configuration without changing your application code, and it will perform those moves for you automatically. It's another example of a managed AWS service, helping take that burden off you, so you can focus more on your business needs. 

There are also other storage classes like S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access, S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval, and S3 Glacier Deep Archive that you can use. Happy storing.

In object storage, each object consists of data, metadata, and a key.

The data might be an image, video, text document, or any other type of file. Metadata contains information about what the data is, how it is used, the object size, and so on. An object’s key is its unique identifier

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is a service that provides object-level storage. Amazon S3 stores data as objects in buckets.

You can upload any type of file to Amazon S3, such as images, videos, text files, and so on. For example, you might use Amazon S3 to store backup files, media files for a website, or archived documents. Amazon S3 offers unlimited storage space. The maximum file size for an object in Amazon S3 is 5 TB.

With Amazon S3, you pay only for what you use. You can choose from a range of storage classes to select a fit for your business and cost needs. When selecting an Amazon S3 storage class, consider these two factors

Amazon S3 Standard provides high availability for objects. This makes it a good choice for a wide range of use cases, such as websites, content distribution, and data analytics. Amazon S3 Standard has a higher cost than other storage classes intended for infrequently accessed data and archival storage.

Amazon S3 Standard-IA is ideal for data infrequently accessed but requires high availability when needed. Both Amazon S3 Standard and Amazon S3 Standard-IA store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones. Amazon S3 Standard-IA provides the same level of availability as Amazon S3 Standard but with a lower storage price and a higher retrieval price.

Compared to S3 Standard and S3 Standard-IA, which store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones, S3 One Zone-IA stores data in a single Availability Zone.

In the S3 Intelligent-Tiering storage class, Amazon S3 monitors objects’ access patterns. If you haven’t accessed an object for 30 consecutive days, Amazon S3 automatically moves it to the infrequent access tier, S3 Standard-IA. If you access an object in the infrequent access tier, Amazon S3 automatically moves it to the frequent access tier, S3 Standard.

When you decide between the options for archival storage, consider how quickly you must retrieve the archived objects. You can retrieve objects stored in the S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval storage class within milliseconds, with the same performance as S3 Standard.

S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval is a low-cost storage class that is ideal for data archiving. For example, you might use this storage class to store archived customer records or older photos and video files. You can retrieve your data from S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval from 1 minute to 12 hours.

S3 Deep Archive supports long-term retention and digital preservation for data that might be accessed once or twice in a year. This storage class is the lowest-cost storage in the AWS Cloud, with data retrieval from 12 to 48 hours. All objects from this storage class are replicated and stored across at least three geographically dispersed Availability Zones.

Amazon S3 Outposts delivers object storage to your on-premises AWS Outposts environment. Amazon S3 Outposts is designed to store data durably and redundantly across multiple devices and servers on your Outposts. 

