Before we wrap up databases and storage, I wanna loop back to the topic that we started all this with. Choosing the right database, choosing the right storage platform to fit your business needs, rather than forcing your data to fit your database's requirements. No matter what a database vendor might try to tell you, there is no one-size-fits-all database for all purposes. We've covered quite a few database flavors already, but there are even more databases AWS offers for special business requirements, that we don't have time to cover. But its worth just knowing they are there in case you need them. 

For example, we talked about DynamoDB, and that's great for key-value pair databases. But what if you need more than just small attributes? What if you need a full content management system? Introducing Amazon DocumentDB, Great for content management, catalogs, user profiles. 

What if you add a social network that you wanted to track for those kind of social webs, who is connected to who, is very clunky to manage in a traditional relational database so Amazon Neptune: a graph database, engineered for social networking and recommendation engines, also great for fraud detection needs. 

Or perhaps you have a supply chain, that you have to track with assurances that nothing is lost. Or you have banking or financial records that require 100% immutability, or some people will tell you, oh, that's what blockchain is all about. Well, perhaps, I mean now, If you do need a blockchain solution, wouldn't you know it? We offer Amazon Managed Blockchain. But that's probably not what you really need here. It solves part of the equation, but adds a huge decentralization component, that's not what financial regulators wanna see. What you really need is an immutable ledger, so Amazon QLDB, or Quantum Ledger Database. An immutable system of record where any entry can never be removed from the audits. 

Databases by themselves are great but if there is a way to make them faster, wouldn't that be greater? But you know I wouldn't be saying that, if there weren't some accelerator options that can be used in a number of unique scenarios. Starting with adding caching layers on top of your databases that can help improve read times of common requests from milliseconds to microseconds Amazon ElastiCache can provide those caching layers without your team needing to worry about the heavy lifting of launching, uplift, and maintenance. And it comes in both Memcached and Redis flavors. 

Or if you are using DynamoDB, try using DAX, the DynamoDB Accelerator, a native caching layer designed to dramatically improve read times for your nonrelational data. 

Amazon DocumentDB is a document database service that supports MongoDB workloads. (MongoDB is a document database program.)

Amazon Neptune is a graph database service. 

Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB) is a ledger database service. 

Amazon Managed Blockchain is a service that you can use to create and manage blockchain networks with open-source frameworks. 


Amazon ElastiCache is a service that adds caching layers on top of your databases to help improve the read times of common requests. 

Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX) is an in-memory cache for DynamoDB. 