The Well-Architected Framework is designed to enable architects, developers, and users of AWS to build secure, high-performance, resilient, and efficient infrastructure for their applications. It's composed of six pillars to ensure a consistent approach to reviewing and designing of architectures. 

The first pillar is Operational Excellence, and it focuses on running and monitoring systems to deliver business value, and with that, continually improving processes and procedures. For example, automating changes with deployment pipelines or responding to events that are triggered. 

The Second pillar is Security, and as you know, security is priority number one at AWS. And this pillar exemplifies it by checking integrity of data and, for example, protecting systems by using encryption. 

The third pillar is Reliability, and it focuses on recovery planning, such as recovery from an Amazon DynamoDB disruption or an Amazon EC2 node failure. It also covers how you handle change to meet business and customer demand. 

The fourth pillar is Performance Efficiency, and it entails using IT and computing resources efficiently. For example, using the right Amazon EC2 type based on workload and memory requirements. It also covers making informed decisions and maintaining efficiency as business needs evolve. 

The fifth pillar is Cost Optimization, which looks at optimizing full cost. This is controlling where money is spent. And, for example, checking if you have overestimated your Amazon EC2 server size. You can then lower cost by choosing a more cost-effective size. 

And last is the sixth pillar: Sustainability. The Sustainability pillar focuses on minimizing the environmental impacts of running cloud workloads. Reducing energy consumption and increasing efficiency are at the core of this pillar. So, you can design cloud architectures that reduce resource usage. And ultimately, design with the planet and your business in mind.

In the past, you'd need to evaluate these against your AWS infrastructure with the help of a solutions architect. Not that you can't and aren't still encouraged to do that. But we listened to customer feedback and decided to release the framework as a self-service tool, the Well-Architected Tool. You can access it with the AWS Management Console. Create a workload and run it against your AWS account to generate a report showing areas that should be addressed. 

It kind of looks like a traffic light system, with green being go, keep up the good work. Orange being, you should probably look into this because there's room for improvement. And red being, okay, you should look at this because something is at risk. These are areas where the tool has detected potential issues, and it presents you with a plan on how to architect using established best practices. It should be noted that you can always override these settings if the questions don't apply to your scenario. It's very customizable. Interesting side note, where I'm from, South Africa, we call traffic lights robots. 

If we take a look at the tool itself, you’ll see something similar to the following screenshot. As I mentioned, we name our workload and that appears in Section One. Section Two shows you the pillars and drop-downs into the questions for each. Section Three shows the actual questions themselves. Four is the pillar and question stem. Five is a bit of background and the recommendation. Six is the answer you provide with a toggle to designate whether the question is applicable or not. This is important because it affects your overall score. Oh, and I can't forget Section Seven, where you’ll be presented with short videos explaining how to answer a particular question. 

The AWS Well-Architected Framework(opens in a new tab) helps you understand how to design and operate reliable, secure, efficient, and cost-effective systems in the AWS Cloud. It provides a way for you to consistently measure your architecture against best practices and design principles and identify areas for improvement.

Operational excellence is the ability to run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures.  

The Security pillar is the ability to protect information, systems, and assets while delivering business value through risk assessments and mitigation strategies. 

Reliability is the ability of a system to do the following:

Recover from infrastructure or service disruptions
Dynamically acquire computing resources to meet demand
Mitigate disruptions such as misconfigurations or transient network issues


Performance efficiency is the ability to use computing resources efficiently to meet system requirements and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes and technologies evolve. 

Cost optimization is the ability to run systems to deliver business value at the lowest price point.

Sustainability is the ability to continually improve sustainability impacts by reducing energy consumption and increasing efficiency across all components of a workload by maximizing the benefits from the provisioned resources and minimizing the total resources required.

