What are the key elements of training a foundation model? They include pre-training, fine-tuning, and continuous pre-training. Let's start with pre-training, which is a complex process. It requires millions of graphic processing units, GPUs, compute hours, terabytes and petabytes of data, trillions of tokens, trial and error, and time. During the pre-training, generative AI models learn its capabilities. What is the difference between pre-training and fine-tuning? With pre-training, you train the LLM by using huge amounts of unstructured data with self-supervised learning.

Even though foundation models have been trained on millions of documents, videos, images, files, audio files and more, and have learned the fundamentals of the human language, they might need additional training or instructions for your domain and dataset, or they might need to learn how to perform human tasks and reasoning. Fine-tuning is a process that extends the training of the model to improve the generation of completions for a specific task. It is a supervised learning process and you use a dataset of labeled examples to update the weights of the LLM. Fine-tuning helps to adapt foundation models to your custom datasets and use cases. Instruction based fine-tuning uses labeled examples for performance improvements on specific tasks. LLMs can perform many different tasks within a single model. However, what if your application needs to perform a single task? Well, you can fine-tune a pre-trained model to improve performance for the tasks specific to your use cases. However, there is a possible limitation to fine-tuning on a single task, which is catastrophic forgetting. Catastrophic forgetting happens when the whole fine-tuning process modifies the weights of the original LLM. This can improve the performance of the single task fine-tuning, but it can degrade performance on other tasks. And another consideration is to decide whether catastrophic forgetting will impact your use case. If you need reliable performance on a single task, then you might not be concerned that the model can't generalize to other tasks.

During full fine-tuning, every parameter in the model is updated through supervised learning, but there are parameter efficient methods to adapt your model. When you train and tune a foundation model, you load the model parameters and add memory for the optimizer, gradients, forward activations, and temporal memory. These components can add additional bytes of GPU memory for each model parameter, and they can also increase the compute costs of the fine-tuning process. Parameter-efficient fine-tuning, PEFT, is a process and set of techniques that freeze or preserve the parameters and weights of the original LLM and fine-tune or train a small number of task-specific adaptor layers and parameters. PEFT reduces the compute and memory that's needed because it's fine-tuning a small set of model parameters. Low-rank adaptation or LoRA, is a popular PEFT technique that also preserves or freezes the original weights of the foundation model and creates new trainable low-rank matrices into each layer of a transformer architecture. PEFT and LoRA modify the weights of your model, but not the representations.

Representations encode semantic information similar to embeddings. Representation fine-tuning, ReFT, is a fine-tuning process that freezes the base model and learns task-specific interventions on hidden representations. The linear representation hypothesis says that concepts are encoded in linear subspaces of representation in a neural network. Multitask fine-tuning is an extension of fine-tuning a single task. Multitask fine-tuning requires a lot of data. For this process, the training dataset has examples of inputs and outputs for multiple tasks. For example, the dataset might contain examples that instruct a model to complete multiple tasks such as reviews or ratings, summarization, translating code, and more. This produces an instruction tuned model that has learned how to complete many different tasks simultaneously. Additionally, you can calculate losses from the examples to update the weights of the model. This helps mitigate and avoid catastrophic forgetting. Here is a question.

What fine-tuning process modifies the weights of the model to adapt to domain-specific data? Domain adaptation fine-tuning gives you the ability to use the pre-trained foundation models and adapt them to specific tasks by using limited domain-specific data. You can use domain adaptation fine-tuning to help your model work with domain-specific language such as industry jargon, technical terms, or other specialized data. Amazon SageMaker JumpStart provides the capability to fine-tune a large language model, particularly a text generation model on the domain- specific dataset. You can fine-tune models with their custom dataset to improve performance in specific domains. You can also fine-tune reinforcement learning from human feedback, or RLHF. In this way you can improve the performance of your model and help it better understand human-like prompts to generate human-like responses. RLHF uses reinforcement learning to fine-tune the LLM with human feedback data to better align the model with human preferences. 