The first step is to prepare your training data. Many publicly available datasets and prompt template libraries have been used to train large language models. The prompt template libraries include many templates for different tasks and datasets. After your instruction dataset is ready, you can divide the dataset into training validation, and test splits. During fine-tuning, you select prompts from your training dataset and pass them to the LLM to generate completions. Then, compare the distribution of completions, and the training label, to calculate a loss between the two token distributions. You can use the calculated loss to update your model's weights.

After many batches of prompt completion pairs, update the weights so the model's performance on the task improves. As in standard supervised learning, you can define separate evaluation steps to measure your LLM's performance, by using the holdout validation dataset. You will get the validation accuracy, and after you've completed your fine-tuning, you can perform a final performance evaluation by using the holdout test dataset. This last result will give you the test accuracy. How can you prepare your data for the fine-tuning process in AWS? Well, let's pause for fundamentals and talk about data preparation. In machine learning, data preparation is the collecting pre-processing, and organizing of your raw data for your model. I have added flashcards to dive deeper, but for now, let's quickly review a few options of data preparation in AWS.

If you have low-code data preparation, you can use Amazon SageMaker Canvas to create data flows that define your ML data pre-processing. These data flows feature engineering workflows that use little to no coding. If you have data preparation that needs to scale, you can use open source frameworks such as Apache Spark, Apache Hive, or Presto. Amazon SageMaker Studio Classic provides a built-in integration with Amazon EMR. Also, if you need serverless, you can use the Apache Spark based serverless engine from AWS Glue interactive sessions. They will aggregate, transform, and prepare data from multiple sources in SageMaker Studio Classic.

If you need to use structured query language, or SQL, in SageMaker Studio for data preparation, you can use Jupyter Lab. If you have data preparation for feature discovery and storage, you can use Amazon SageMaker Feature Store to search, discover, and retrieve features for model training. You can also use it to provide a centralized repository to store feature data in a standardized format. Suppose that you have data preparation that needs to detect bias in your data. You can use Amazon SageMaker Clarify to analyze your data and detect potential biases across multiple facets. For example, SageMaker Clarify can help you detect whether your training data contains imbalanced representations or labeling biases between groups such as gender, race, or age. If you have data that needs to be labeled, you can use SageMaker Ground Truth to manage the data labeling workflows for your training datasets. Continuous pre-training is also important with generative AI for a few reasons. The output of generative AI models is non-deterministic, which makes validation more difficult.

It's important to choose metrics, benchmarks, and datasets that help evaluate the capabilities of the models and ensure that it doesn't create harmful outputs. When you continually pre-train models on data across different topics, genres, and context, over time, the models become more powerful. They learn how to use out of domain data better by accumulating wider knowledge and adaptability. This capability creates value for your organization. For example, continued pre-training in Amazon Bedrock helps you to train Amazon Titan Text Express, and Amazon Titan Text Lite FMs. You can customize them by using your own unlabeled data in a secure and managed environment. 