With your first foray into the AWS Cloud, you most likely will start with one AWS account and have everything reside in there. Most people start this way, but as your company grows or even begins their cloud journey, it's important to have a separation of duties. For example, you want your developers to have access to development resources, have your accounting staff able to access billing information, or even have business units separate so that they can experiment with AWS services without effecting each other. So you start to add more cards for each person, whoever needs to onboard. And before you know it, you end up with a tangled bowl of AWS account spaghetti, not as tasty as you might imagine. 

For example, you'll then have to keep track of Account A, F, and G, or maybe Account B has the wrong permissions and Account C has billing and compliance info. One way to install order and to enforce who is allowed to perform certain functions in what account is to make use of an AWS service called AWS Organizations. 

The easiest way to think of Organizations is as a central location to manage multiple AWS accounts. You can manage billing control, access, compliance, security, and share resources across your AWS accounts. Let's outline some of the main features of AWS Organizations, shall we? 

The first is centralized management of all your AWS accounts. Think of all those AWS accounts, we had: A, B, C, F, G. Now you can combine them into an organization that enables us to manage the accounts centrally, and wow. Now we've found Accounts D and E in the process. Next up is consolidated billing for all member accounts. This means you can use the primary account of your organization to consolidate and pay for all member accounts. Another advantage of consolidated billing is bulk discounts. Cash money, indeed. 

The next feature is that you can implement hierarchical groupings of your accounts to meet security, compliance, or budgetary needs. This means you can group accounts into organizational units, or OUs, kind of like business units, or BUs. For example, if you have accounts that must access only the AWS services that meet certain regulatory requirements, you can put those accounts into one OU, or if you have accounts that fall under the developer OU, you can group them accordingly. 

One of the last main features we'll touch upon is that you have control over the AWS services and API actions that each account can access as an administrator of the primary account of an organization. You can use something called service control policies, or SCPs, to specify the maximum permissions for member accounts in the organization. In essence, with SCPs you can restrict which AWS services, resources, and individual API actions, the users and roles in each member account can access.

Suppose that your company has multiple AWS accounts. You can use AWS Organizations to consolidate and manage multiple AWS accounts within a central location.

When you create an organization, AWS Organizations automatically creates a root, which is the parent container for all the accounts in your organization. 

In AWS Organizations, you can centrally control permissions for the accounts in your organization by using service control policies (SCPs). SCPs enable you to place restrictions on the AWS services, resources, and individual API actions that users and roles in each account can access.

In AWS Organizations, you can group accounts into organizational units (OUs) to make it easier to manage accounts with similar business or security requirements. When you apply a policy to an OU, all the accounts in the OU automatically inherit the permissions specified in the policy.

By organizing separate accounts into OUs, you can more easily isolate workloads or applications that have specific security requirements. For instance, if your company has accounts that can access only the AWS services that meet certain regulatory requirements, you can put these accounts into one OU. Then, you can attach a policy to the OU that blocks access to all other AWS services that do not meet the regulatory requirements.
